SRM Institute of Science and Technology
UNIVERSITY INFORMATION
LEARN. LEAP. LEAD.

-- 1 of 74 --

2
CONTENTS
Message from the Chancellor 	03
Governence at SRM 	04
Rankings 	05
Institute par Excellence 	06
Campuses 	10
University Central Library 	12
International Relations 	14
Research, Development & Innovation 	20
Center for Cultural and Language Studies 	24
Career Centre 	26
Entrepreneurship and Innovation 	28
Beyond the Classroom 	32
Sports 	38
Scholarships 	42
Agricultural Sciences 	44
Engineering & Technology 	46
Law 	50
Management 	52
Medicine & Health Sciences 	54
Science & Humanities 	58
Everlasting Bonds 	60
Outreach 	62

-- 2 of 74 --

3
SRMIST’s programmes endeavour to be at the forefront of
innovation. They also foster multi-disciplinary collaborations
aimed at solving the most pressing global problems.
Our mission is to seek solutions to global challenges by
using the power of engineering principles, techniques
and systems. We believe that engineers should not only
possess deep technical excellence, but also creativity,
cultural awareness and entrepreneurial skills that come
from exposure to science, business, medicine and other
disciplines – all an integral part of the SRM experience.
Our 	goal 	is 	to 	deliver 	world-class, 	solutions-driven
programmes that inspire curiosity and generate new
knowledge and discoveries. Our collaboration with over
50 of the world’s best universities and 215 corporates
strengthens our academic and research programmes.
SRMIST is committed to pioneering innovations in research,
transferring discoveries to the wider community, and
educating tomorrow’s leaders and entrepreneurs.
Welcome to SRM!
Dr. T.R.Paarivendhar
Chancellor
Message from the
CHANCELLOR
“Engineering and Science can give you the
exhilarating power to become an active explorer,
maker, doer, and help invent the future."

-- 3 of 74 --

Governence
at SRMIST
SRM Institute of Science and Technology a Deemed to be University
Under sec 13(B) UGC Act, 1956 is run by the Trust SRM Institute
of Science and Technology. Its motivating force is our dynamic
Founder-Chancellor Dr. T. R. Paarivendhar, former honourable
Member of Parliament (MP), who has been rendering yeoman
service to the cause of education in our country for the past five
decades.
Dr. Ravi Pachamuthu - Pro-Chancellor (Administration)
Dr. P. Sathyanarayanan - Pro-Chancellor (Academics)
Dr. R. Shivakumar - Chairman (Ramapuram and Trichy Campuses)
Dr. C. Muthamizhchelvan - Vice Chancellor
Dr. S. Ponnusamy - Registrar
Dr. Ravi Pachamuthu
Pro-Chancellor (Administration)
Dr. C. Muthamizhchelvan
Vice Chancellor
Dr. S. Ponnusamy
Registrar
Dr. P. Sathyanarayanan
Pro-Chancellor (Academics)
Dr. R. Shivakumar
Chairman - Trichy & Ramapuram
Campuses

-- 4 of 74 --

5
Rankings & Accreditation
**The information in this brochure is for general guidance only. SRMIST endeavors to ensure accuracy but does not guarantee it. Course offerings, programs, and
requirements may change without notice. For the latest information, please visit our website or contact the college directly.
21st
Overall Rank
12th
University Rank
7th
Dental University
Rank
11th
Architecture
Rank
13th
Engineering &
Technology Rank
11th
Pharmacy
Rank
18th
Medical Rank
24th
Research
Rank
2024
World Ranking
one among 91
Indian Universities
2024
World Ranking
Ranked 5-7 in
Indian Universities
2025
World Ranking
one among 46
Indian Universities

-- 5 of 74 --

Institute 	par
Excellence
With a legacy of four decades in education and a mission
to enlighten lives, SRM Institute of Science and Technology
(SRMIST) stands at the forefront of India's education
revolution. Guided by a vision to create a nurturing
academic environment, SRMIST offers multidisciplinary
programs across six faculties: Agricultural Sciences,
Engineering & Technology, Law, Management, Medicine &
Health Sciences, and Science & Humanities.
As one of India's top-ranking universities, SRMIST operates
six campuses across the country, located in Kattankulathur,
Ramapuram, and Vadapalani in Chennai, as well as
in Delhi-NCR Ghaziabad, Trichy, and Acharapakkam.
These campuses collectively offer a diverse array of
undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral programs
across more than 100 disciplines, educating approximately
62,000 students from India and around the globe.
Holistic Learning
At SRMIST, we are committed to providing a holistic
learning experience. The institution boasts of a highly
accomplished faculty that blends academic expertise with
industry experience, ensuring students receive exceptional
guidance and mentorship. Beyond academics, our students
thrive in an environment that promotes sports and
recreation. Our state-of-the-art athletic facilities, including
indoor and outdoor stadiums, sports courts, and fitness
centers, encourage a healthy lifestyle and foster teamwork.
Diversity
Diversity is not just a feature but a cornerstone of SRMIST’s
identity. With students and faculty hailing from across
India and around the world, our community is enriched
by a tapestry of perspectives, ideas, and experiences.
This inclusive environment nurtures mutual respect and
understanding, empowering students to appreciate and
embrace differences—an essential foundation for social
harmony and personal growth.

-- 6 of 74 --

7
SRMIST
offers UG, PG
and Doctoral
programmes
in over 100
disciplines to
over 53,000
students from
India and abroad
SRM Institute of Science and Technology has achieved many
milestones over the years and a few of them are highlighted below:
• SRMIST 	is 	accredited 	by 	NAAC 	(National 	Assessment 	and
Accreditation Council) with the highest Grade of ‘A++’ (16.06.2024
to 15.06.2031)
• It is classified as a Category I University by UGC/MHRD.
• QS (Quacquarelli Symonds-United Kingdom) has rated SRM Institute
of Science and Technology globally as a 4-star Institute in its second
cycle, with Five-Star ratings in Teaching, Employability, Online
Learning, Innovation, Social Responsibility, and Inclusiveness.
• SRMIST has been ranked 12 under the University category by NIRF-
2024 (National Institutional Ranking Framework-MoE).
• SRMIST stands 4 th in the country and 147 th in the world in the UI
Green Metric World University Ranking on Sustainability.
• SRMIST gets regularly featured in the Global Ranking conducted by
QS and THE (Times Higher Education-United Kingdom)
• SRMIST Rated as AAA for the year 2021 by NPTEL – SWAYAM and
secured the second position in India.

-- 7 of 74 --

8
High-Tech
Green Campuses
The SRMIST Campuses are known for their advanced
facilities and exceptional faculty, which enhance the
learning journey. Each campus boasts of state-of-the-
art laboratories that facilitate hands-on learning and
pioneering research.
Extensive libraries on campuses contain a wealth
of books, journals, and digital resources, serving
as invaluable assets for students and scholars.
Furthermore, the campuses prioritise sustainability
through green spaces, eco-friendly initiatives, and
renewable energy sources.
Conveniences such as bookstores, DTP centres, ATM
facilities, food courts and cafeterias offering a wide
range of cuisine on campus make life comfortable for
students.
Hostels
Our modern residential facilities offer comfortable
living, with well-equipped hostels that provide
essential amenities and a conducive study
environment. The hostels for men and women are
designed with students' comfort and safety in mind.
All the hostels have reading halls, large dining halls,
Wi-Fi connectivity, indoor recreation, Gyms, and a
24/7 medical facility.
The hostels provide air-conditioned rooms for those
in need, and the dining halls serve North Indian, South
Indian, Continental, and Chinese cuisine. They offer
round-the-clock security.

-- 8 of 74 --

9
Chennai
Chennai, the vibrant capital of Tamil Nadu, is a welcoming
metropolitan city. Known for its friendly and hospitable people,
Chennai offers a rich cultural tapestry, which is evident in its
music and dance festivals and diverse cuisine. The city provides
extensive industrial exposure with major corporations in the
manufacturing and service sectors, offering numerous internship
and employment opportunities. Entertainment options are
plentiful, from pristine beaches like Marina and Elliot’s to bustling
shopping districts and lively nightlife.
The city’s infrastructure is impressive, featuring well-developed
roads, efficient public transportation, and extensive rail and air
connectivity, making travel convenient. With a blend of tradition
and modernity, Chennai ensures a holistic and enriching student
experience, making it an ideal place to live, learn, and grow.
Metro Campuses
Three of SRMIST’s campuses are located in and around Chennai
a metropolitan city.
View of the sprawling Kattankulathur campus in Chennai

-- 9 of 74 --

10
Kattankulathur
Campus
Established in 1985, the Kattankulathur campus is about 15 kilometres
from Tambaram, Chennai. The campus, with a built-up area of about
12 million square feet, has endless conveniences, including separate
hostels for boys and girls and an international hostel offering premium
facilities such as a 24-hour café —ideal for late-night study. It also has
a 1600+-bedded super specialty hospital. For the convenience of the
students and faculty, there is a free shuttle service within the sprawling
campus. There are prayer halls for all religions. The campus also has
a 3-star hotel with a swimming pool. The campus offers programmes
in:Faculty of Engineering & Technology, Faculty of Medicine and Health
Sciences, Faculty of Management, Faculty of Science and Humanities
and Faculty of Law
Potheri Suburban Station - Walkable distance
Airport - 23 kms
Dr . MGR Central Railway Station - 42 kms

-- 10 of 74 --

11
N
E
S
W

-- 11 of 74 --

12
Vadapalani
Campus
Established in 2009, the Vadapalani campus of SRM Institute of Science
and Technology is of 5 acres and is in the heart of the metropolitan city
of Chennai. All the laboratories are equipped to meet the standards
of engineering education, which will kindle innovation and research in
young minds and lead to all-around development. Separate hostels for
Men and Women are available. The men's hostel is at Ramapuram &
Virugambakkam, a few kms away from the Vadapalani campus. The
campus offers programmes in:
• Faculty of Engineering and Technology
• Faculty of Management Studies
• Faculty of Science & Humanities.
Vadapalani Metro Station - Walkable distance
Airport - 12 kms
Dr . MGR Central Railway Station - 10 kms

-- 12 of 74 --

13
Administration
Faculty of Engineering
W
N
E
S
A BLOCK
B BLOCK
C BLOCK
Vadapalani Metro
Station
SIMS Hospital

-- 13 of 74 --

14
Ramapuram
Campus
The Ramapuram campus, established in 2006 and spread
over 25 acres, is nestled in the heart of Chennai. Some
prominent disciplines covered by the academic programs
at this quaint and serene SRMIST Campus include
Architecture, Engineering & Technology, Science and
Humanities, and Medical and Health Sciences. It has hostels
for men and women. The campus offers programmes in:
Faculty of Engineering & Technology, Faculty of Science and
Humanities and Faculty of Medicine & Health Sciences
Alandur Metro Station - 6 kms
Airport - 10 kms
Dr . MGR Central Railway Station - 15 kms

-- 14 of 74 --

15
Engineering Campus
Medical Campus
Hostel Facilities
E
S
W
N

-- 15 of 74 --

16
Modi Nagar -
New Delhi Campus
Established in 1997, the Modi Nagar campus is located at National
Capital Region (NCR) Ghaziabad (U.P.), near New Delhi. With its deep
historical roots, Delhi has been the centre of power for centuries, and
has cultural landmarks and heritage sites, enriching the educational
experience. Proximity to numerous industries and corporate hubs
ensures ample opportunities for internships and real-world exposure.
Additionally, Delhi NCR's robust transport network, including metro,
buses, and airports, ensures seamless connectivity, making it an
ideal destination for higher education and career growth. The campus
offers programmes in: Faculty of Engineering & Technology, Faculty of
Medicine and Health Sciences, Faculty of Management and Faculty of
Science and Humanities
Modinagar South Station RRTS - 6 kms
Airport - 66 kms
Nizamuddin Railway Station - 55 kms

-- 16 of 74 --

17
Engineering Campus
Hostel Facilities
E
S
W
N
Modi Nagar
Metro

-- 17 of 74 --

18
Trichy
Campus
Established in 2021, the Trichy campus is at Irungalur. An ancient
town situated in the heart of Tamil Nadu, Trichy's proximity
to key industrial hubs offers students valuable internship and
job opportunities, enhancing their practical knowledge and
skills. Additionally, the city's well-developed transport network,
including road, rail, and air connectivity, ensures easy access and
convenience, making it an ideal destination for higher education.
SRM Trichy Campus. boasts a picturesque location amidst serene
surroundings. Spread across acres of lush greenery, the campus
provides an ideal environment for learning and exploration. It has
separate hostel facilities for boys and girls and is equipped with
all modern amenities. The campus offers programmes in:Faculty
of Engineering & Technology, Faculty of Medicine and Health
Sciences and Faculty of Science and Humanities
Trichy Airport - 26 kms
Trichy Railway Central Station - 25 kms

-- 18 of 74 --

19
College Campus
Hostel Facilities
W
N
E
S

-- 19 of 74 --

20
Baburayanpettai
Campus
Established in 2018, nestled amidst the verdant fields of
Baburayanpettai, near Acharapakkam in the Chengalpet district
of Tamil Nadu, the agriculture college stands as a beacon
of sustainable farming and innovative agricultural practices.
Surrounded by lush landscapes, the campus thrives on a
harmonious blend of traditional wisdom and modern technology.
This unique blend creates an environment that is both rooted in age-
old agricultural practices and at the forefront of modern agricultural
research. State-of-the-art greenhouses and research centres are
interspersed with organic farms, creating an environment where
knowledge flourishes. This idyllic setting not only nurtures crops but
also cultivates minds, inspiring the next generation of agricultural
leaders. Baburayanpettai is about 10kms off the NH 45 and is about
105 kms from Chennai. The campus offers programmes in: Faculty
of Agricultural Sciences and Faculty of Science and Humanities
Chennai Airport - 90 kms
Melmaruvathur Railway Station - 16 kms

-- 20 of 74 --

21
E
S
W
N

-- 21 of 74 --

House of
Wisdom

-- 22 of 74 --

23
The University Central Library spreads across the ground plus three
floors with a built-up area of 1.5 lakh sq. ft. in the University Administrative Block,
constructed in modern and functional lines. It is centrally air-conditioned with
CCTV surveillance and automated with Radio Frequency Identification (RFID)
Technology.
The University Central Library collection includes 1,50,000+ volumes of
books with 66,000+ titles on Engineering and Technology, Management, Physical
Sciences, Life Sciences, Humanities and Architecture.
The library subscribes to 169 print journals and 38,733 e-journals, including IEL
(IEEE Electronic Library) Online, ACM Digital Library, Springer Nature, Science
Direct, ASCE, ASME, Emerald, Institute of Physics, Nature etc., It subscribes to
databases such as SAE Digital Library, Pro Quest, Emerald, Springer Materials,
SCOPUS, Lexis Advance, EBSCO (Management Database), CDJ and SCC Online.
It has over 2,12,000 E-books from publishers like John Wiley, Elsevier, Springer,
Pearson Education, IET Publications and EBSCO e-book collections to cater to the
ever-growing needs of students, staff and research scholars. Members can access
these resources throughout the campus through Wi-Fi.
The University Central Library has sections like a Stack Area, 200-seater Reading
Halls on each floor, a Conference Hall, a Technical Section, a Library Office,
a Seminar Hall, and a a separate section for Braille. In addition to the Central
Library, there are specific libraries attached to Colleges and Departments across
campuses.
The library has facilities like a well-furnished video hall containing 700 Videos,
SWAYAM/NPTEL Video courses and access to other e-Learning resources such
as Shodhsindu, Shodhganga and National Digital Library (NDL), an initiative of the
Union Ministry of HRD under NME-ICT funded by UGC.
The Library is a member of :
• The Regional Level Network of MAdras LIBrary NETwork (MALIBNET)
• National Level Network of Developing Library Network (DELNET), which enables
the staff and students to access all the major participating libraries in India.
• Institution of Engineers, Kolkata, British Council Library, Chennai, American
Information Services Center, Institute for Steel Development & Growth (INSDAG)
The library facilitates VPN Access to all e-resources through “Knimbus” and Inter-
Library Loan (ILL). Also, the library has facilities such as an Internet browsing
centre and a Reprography Section.
In addition to
the Central
Library, there
are specific
libraries
attached to
Colleges and
Departments
across
campuses.

-- 23 of 74 --

International
Relations

-- 24 of 74 --

25
The Directorate of International Relations (DIR) builds
international alliances with leading Universities and institutions abroad
with the objective of SRMIST achieving global excellence in higher
education and research. The Directorate has signed 150+ Memoranda
of Understanding (MoU) with reputed foreign educational institutions to
facilitate faculty and student exchanges and collaborative research. 24
of these MoU have been signed with universities that rank among the top
200 QS universities.
These MoU have resulted in:
• Student exchange and faculty exchange programs through Student
Abroad Program (SAP) and Faculty Abroad Program (FAP) respectively.
• Visiting professors from foreign Universities exposing SRMIST
students to international trends and enhancing the quality of research.
Admission of NRI and International Students
The Directorate oversees the Admissions of NRI and international
students to various programmes in the faculties of Engineering and
Technology, Medicine and Health Sciences, Science and Humanities, and
Management.
It handholds international students in transitioning to the SRMIST
campus community by
• Helping them with immigration procedures
• Facilitating the accommodation and other needs of the international
students and faculty on campus
• Organising orientation programs and socio-cultural programs for the
international student community
• Providing counselling on personal, academic and financial issues
• Offering information about international employment
• Offering need-based English classes for international students.
MoU with
Partnering
Institutions in 42
Countries and
200+ Universities
for academic
and exchange
programs
SRMIST signs MoU with Mittuniversitetet, Sweden

-- 25 of 74 --

26
International Student Mobility
SRMIST's international student mobility involves students moving across countries
to pursue courses or projects in partner Universities. This phenomenon has grown
significantly over the past few decades, driven by globalisation, technological
advancements, and the increasing recognition of the value of international
education. Here's a detailed overview:
Student Mobility Benefits
• Gain International Learning and Living Experience
• Enhance Career Opportunities both in India and internationally.
• By working under distinguished academics abroad, SRMIST students have
a strong chance of gaining admission to graduate programs at that or other
universities based on performance.
• Work in a Multi-Cultural Environment
• Complete a year of research work in SAP, meeting credit requirements, to earn an
Honours degree.
Semester Abroad Program (SAP)
One of SRMIST's distinctive aspects is its Semester Abroad Program (SAP), which
provides students with the opportunity to engage in research and academic
environments internationally. Grades earned during this period at the partner
institutions are converted to SRMIST grades through an approved process. After
completing their time abroad, students return to SRMIST to fulfil the remaining
degree requirements. Upon meeting all the criteria set by SRMIST, they are awarded
their degree.
2+2 - Transfer / Twinning
The Twinning/Transfer program enables students to complete a Bachelor’s
degree through a 2+2 year arrangement and a Master’s degree through a 1+1 year
arrangement. Under this program, SRMIST students who choose to transfer their

-- 26 of 74 --

27
credits to the partnering foreign university can complete their remaining coursework
there. Upon successful completion of their studies, students participating in the
Twinning program will be awarded degrees from the partner universities. Transfer
students will be responsible for paying the applicable tuition fees at the partner
institutions.
MS Pathway / Dual Degree
The Master's Pathway or Dual Degree program offered by SRMIST, namely 3.5+1.5,
4+1 ( years), provides an affordable way to earn a globally recognised credential by
partnering with leading universities around the world. The Bachelor's degree will
be awarded by SRMIST, and the Master's degree will be awarded by the university
abroad.
Global Immersion Program
SRMIST's Global Immersion Program is designed for students or participants from
foreign Universities to get acquainted with and immerse themselves in the daily life
and traditions of Indian culture, usually through direct, experiential learning. These
programs offer a deep dive into our country's cultural practices, values, and social
norms.
In the 2023-
24 academic
year,
over 250
SRMIST
students
went
abroad
to pursue
programs in
partner
Universities

-- 27 of 74 --

28
AUSTRALIA
• La Trobe University
• University of Technology
• Royal Melbourne Institute of
Technology
• University of New South Wales
• The University of Melbourne
• Flinders University
• University of Western Sydney
• Charles Darwin University
• University of Western Australia
• The University of Newcastle
• Deakin University
• University of Queensland
• University of Adelaide
BANGLADESH
• Daffodil International University
BRAZIL
• The Federal University of Santa
Maria
BULGARIA
• Varna University of Management
CANADA
• Nipissing University
• Sherbrooke University
• Dalhousie University
• Academics Without Borders
(AWB)
CHILE
• University of Talca
• Universidad De Concepcion
CHINA
• Wuhan Polytechnic
• Zhengzhou University of Light
Industry
• Henan University
• Yunnan Minzu University
• Lin Yi Top Network Company
Limited
ETHIOPIA
• Bahir Dar Institute of Technology
• Mattu University
FRANCE
• Francois Rabelais University
(University of Tours)
• EFREI Engineering School
of Information and Digital
Technology
• The University of Orleans
• Institute Polytechnique des
Sciences Advances (IPSA)
• Ecole Pour L’Information Et Les
Techniques Advances (EPITA)
• Universite Paris Est-Marne-La-
Vallee
• Universite Paris Est-Creteil (UPEC)
• Ecole Normale Superieure (ENS)
• University of Montpellier
GERMANY
• Furtwangen University
• Hochschule Ravensburg-
Weingarten, (University of Applied
Sciences)
• The Hamburg University of
Applied Sciences
GHANA
• Kwame Nkrumah University of
Science & Technology
• Bolgatana Polytechnic
• Sunyani Technical University
• Accra Technical University
• Takoradi Technical University
• Cape Coast Polytechnic
• Kumasi Tech University
• Koforidua Technical University
INDONESIA
• Sari Mutiara Indonesia University
• London School of Public Relation
• University of Telkom
• Binus University
• University of Potensi Utama
• IPB University
• University of Dian Nuswantoro
• Universitas National
• Amikom Purwokerto University
• Universitas Klabat
• Sekolah Tinggi Teknologi
Bandung
• Raharja University
• Stimik Atma Luhur
• University of Gunadarma
• Sekolah Tinggi Manajemen
Informatika dan Komputer
Pontianak
• Universitas Catur Insan Cendekia
• Bina Sarana Informatika
University
• SPK Sekolah Pelita Bangsa
• STIMIK Sepuluh Nopember
Jayapura
• STMIK Nusa Mandiri
• Stikom Tunas Bangsa
• Universitas Amikom Yogyakarta
IRAQ
• Tishk International University
IRELAND
• University College Cork
• Ulster University
ITALY
• ALMA
• The University of Rome tor
Vergata
JAPAN
• Kyushu Institute of Technology
• Tokai University
• NEC Corporation
• Shizuoka University
• Waseda University
• Okayama University
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
• University of Puthisastra
KOREA
• Hannam University
• Sungkyunkwan University
• Dongguk University
• Duksung Women’s University
• Hanyang University
MALAYSIA
• Taylor’s School of Hospitality and
Tourism
• University Malaysia Pahang
• University Tenaga Nasional
UNITEN
• AIMST University
• Sunway University
• Asia Pacific University of
Technology and Innovation
• Taylor’s University
• Universiti Technologi Malaysia
• Universiti Technologi Mara
• Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia
• Mahsa University
• Swinburne University
• University of Malaya
Global Linkages and Partnerships MOU:

-- 28 of 74 --

29
MAURITIUS
• University of Mauritius
• Global Rainbow Foundation
MEXICO
• University Autonoma Del Estado
De Morelos
NETHERLANDS
• HAN University
• Saxion University of Applied
Science
• Delft University of Technology
NEW ZEALAND
• The University of Otago
• University of Auckland
NIGERIA
• Usmanu Danfodiyo University
PHILIPPINES
• Mapua University
POLAND
• Gdansk University of Technology
PORTUGAL
• Instituto Superior Technico
RWANDA
• University of Rwanda
RUSSIA
• Omsk State Technical University
• Skolkovo Institute of Science and
Technology
ROMANIA
• Gheorghe Asachi Technical
University
SINGAPORE
• At –Sunrice
• Corporate Gurukul
• Ngee Ann Polytechnic
SPAIN
• ESIC Business and Marketing
School
• The University of Polytecnica
Valencia
SWEDEN
• Umeå University
• University West
• University of Skovde
SWITZERLAND
• IMI
• Lucerne University of Applied
Science & Arts
TAIWAN
• National Tsing Hua University
• Tzu Chi University
• National Taipei University of
Technology
• Taipei Medical University
• The Ministry of Economic Affairs
• National Kaohsiung Normal
University
• Asia University
• National Formosa University
• AnaGlobe Technology Inc
• National Taiwan Ocean University
• National Chung Cheng University
• I-Shou University
• Tamkang University
• National Chung Hsing University
• Soochow University
• National Cheng Kung University
• Kaoshiung Medical University
• Ming Chuan University
• National Taiwan University of
Science and Technology
• National Yang Ming Chiao Tung
University
• The Chung Shan Medical
Univeristy
• National Ilan University
TANZANIA
• Kampala International University
TURKEY
• Middle East Technical University
• Abdullah Gul University
• Dicle University
UGANDA
• Kampala International University
USA
• University of Wisconsin,
Milwaukee
• University of California, Davis
• New Jersey Institute of
Technology
• University of Dayton
• Virginia Commonwealth
University
• University of Georgia
• Illinois Institute of Technology,
Chicago
• Missouri State University
• University of Central Oklahoma
• University of Wisconsin, Madison
• George Washington University
• The University of Toledo
• University of California, Berkeley
• College Board
• SEHPL Global
• Oakland University
• University of Missouri - Kansas
City
• Kansas State University
• University of Alabama in
Huntsville
• AMOpportunities Inc.,
• Binghamton University
• Texas A&M University (School of
Law)
• Lehigh University
• Studdy Buddy
UK
• University of Dundee
• Lancaster University
• Birmingham CityUniversity
• Keele University
• University of Edinburgh
• University of Hull
• Teesside University
• University of Leeds
• University of Portsmouth
• The Open University
• University of Southampton
• University of Nottingham
• Cranfield University
• King’s College London
VIETNAM
• Hanoi University of Public Health
• Hanoi University of Science &
Technology
• Thuyloi University
ZIMBABWE
• Africa University
• Midlands State University

-- 29 of 74 --

Research,
Development &
Innovation

-- 30 of 74 --

31
Fostering research has always been a priority at SRM Institute of Science and
Technology (SRMIST), which has become a research-driven institute of national
importance. SRMIST provides strong support for researchers with its huge
infrastructure.
Research activities in SRMIST include academic research, sponsored research, and
industry consultancies. These activities are carried out in the Faculty of Engineering
and Technology, Agricultural Sciences, Science and Humanities, and Medical Health
Sciences. Thus, Research and Innovation happen in almost all streams in SRMIST.
Its Centres of Excellence, coupled with state-of-the-art infrastructure, provide a
fertile ground for internationally renowned faculty members to lead path-breaking
research, development, and discovery. The Institute's annual research expenditure
of H 73.50 Crores underscores its commitment to pushing the boundaries of
knowledge.
Sir. C.V. Raman Research Park
The Sir CV Raman Research Park, a collaborative space for high-end research,
consolidates most of the advanced research on the campus, fostering
interdisciplinary collaboration. The park is equipped with cutting-edge instruments
like Scanning Electron Microscope, Transmission Electron Microscope, Raman
Spectrometer, Fourier Transform-Infra red Spectrometer, Brunauer-Emmett-Teller
(BET), Photoluminescence spectrometer, etc.
Each department at SRMIST has its own specialised laboratories and facilities,
designed to facilitate high-end research. For instance, the chemical engineering
block houses a 500MHz NMR spectrometer. At the same time, the Nanotechnology
Research Centre (NRC) offers instruments like Powder X-ray Diffractometer, Single
Crystal X-ray Diffractometer, Scanning Electron Microscope, fabrication set-up, etc.,
for researchers.
High-performance computing facilities is one of the niche facilities
offered by SRMIST, and it is the only privately funded institution which has
created such facilities almost 5 years ago. Given its importance to the theoretical
researchers, the facility is being expanded through cloud resources as well.
Major Funded Projects
• SRMIST's prowess in securing external funding is evident from its numerous
projects supported by prestigious agencies such as DST, DBT, MNRE, CSIR,
BRNS, DRDO, NARL, ICMR, and SPARC, as well as industrial organisations. These
grants, totalling over H 231 crores, have powered more than 500 projects, each
making a significant impact in their respective fields.
• The “Establishment of Holistic Electric Mobility Infrastructure and Supporting
Networks to Promote Research and Startups towards National Electric Mobility”
project under the DST's PURSE Scheme, which was sanctioned with a total outlay
of H 13.63 Crores.
• Prestigious DST-FIST programs have been assigned to the Departments
of Bioengineering, Electronics and Communications, Physics, Mechanical
Engineering, Biotechnology and Chemistry.
• ICMR Centre for Advanced Research (CAR)- Phase 1 Clinical Trial Networks
(ICMR).
• India-Norway cooperation project on capacity building to reduce plastic and
chemical pollution in India (INOPOL).
SRMIST
ranked 24th in
the NIRF 2024
rankings for
Research.

-- 31 of 74 --

32
• Data-driven Novel Enzyme Discovery towards Enzyme Combinations for Plastic Degradation
(MoES).
• Effect of targeted parental education intervention to identify early childhood developmental
disorder-multisite interventional study (ICMR).
• Solar Light driven Highly Efficient Production of Hydrogen (SPARC)
• Qualitative and Quantitative Assessment of Marine Litter and Microplastics in the Coastal
Environment including Lagoons and Estuarine Systems along the Indian Coast (NCCR)
• Wastewater-based surveillance for SARS-CoV-2 in Trichy and Trivandrum under the umbrella of
REACH (DST-CSR)
• An event-driven, phase 3, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre study to
evaluate the efficacy, safety, immunogenicity and lot-to-lot consistency of BBV152, a whole-vision
inactivated SARA-CoV2 vaccine in adults âged18 years of age (ICMR)
• Design and development of a sensor for the detection of pharmaceutical compounds present in
water and wastewater (DST)
• NewGen IEDC grant (DST)
• Developing Cancer Models Using CRISPR Cas 9 Techniques in Zebrafish (DBT)
• Development of Electrode materials for High Energy Density Lithium-ion batteries and
computational studies of solar Absorber layers (MNRE)
Highlights
• Incentives to the tune of Rs. 3 crores per annum for publishing research papers and facilitating
funded projects.
• 30,177 papers were published by the faculty members, which received 2,40,441 citations in
SCOPUS.
• A current H-index at an impressive 145.
• 833 patents filed and 784 published.
• More than 3,800 research scholars pursuing their doctoral programs at the Institute.
• 28 SRMIST faculty members have been listed among the top 2% of scientists worldwide in a
survey conducted by Stanford University, USA.
• SRMIST has been recognised for its significant contribution of 25 research publications in the
Nature Indexed Journal and has been ranked 27th overall among the Indian academic institutions
for the academic year 2022-2023.
• Ranked No. 2 among private Universities in India in the Nature Index Ranking 2023.
• Based on the outstanding contributions of SRMIST to Intellectual Property, the Intellectual
Property Office, India, under the Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion of Ministry of
Commerce & Industry, Government of India, selected SRMIST for the most prestigious National
Intellectual Property Award 2018 in the category of ‘Top Indian Academic institution for Patents &
Commercialization’.
Dr. Paarivendhar Research Colloquium (DPRC) is an in-house colloquium conducted
in SRMIST to provide an exclusive platform for research scholars working in different disciplines
to showcase their research findings to peers and veterans. This platform serves as a fertile ground
inspiring scholars to highlight their research capabilities and potentials to fellow researchers working
in different domains, opening new avenues and interdisciplinary applications for generating novel
ideas.
The Satellite Meteorology Cell
This Cell, sponsored by the Ministry of Earth Sciences, Govt. of India, was established at SRM
University. SRM also plans to establish a Space Science and Technology Centre for advanced
research in space science.

-- 32 of 74 --

33
Research Chairs to Promote Research.
• Abdul Kalam Distinguished Professorship
• Appadurai Chair for Research in Power Engineering
• J.C. Bose Chair for Research in Communication Engineering
• Noble Laureate S. Chandrasekar Chair for Space Research
• Sivaji Ganesan Chair for Research in Fine Arts
• Devaneya Pavanar, Chair for Tamil Language Research
• Tamil Chair at Harvard University (partly funded by SRMIST)
• Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Chair Professorship
• G N Ramachandran Chair Professorship
Centres for Research
• Centre for Earthquake Research (CER)
• Centre for Electronics and Skills Development and Consultancy Services
• Centre for Composites and Advanced Materials
• Centre for Immersive Technologies
• Centre for Statistics
• NI Academy and Research Centre
• Centre for Advanced Complex Control and Embedded Systems (ACCES)
• The Centre for Advanced Concrete Research (CACR)
• Centre for Architectural Heritage
• Centre for Quantum Computing
• Inter Disciplinary Institute of Indian System of Medicine
Centres of Excellence (COE)
At SRMIST, "Centres of Excellence," renowned for their expertise and leadership in a specific
field or discipline, have been created to serve as a hub for advanced research, innovation, and
collaboration, fostering the development of cutting-edge solutions and best practices. Through
partnerships, training programs, and knowledge-sharing initiatives, the Centres cultivate a
culture of excellence, driving advancements and contributing to the continual improvement and
evolution of their respective domain. Given below are the various Centres of Excellence
Centres of Excellence Engineering & Technology
• Centre for Research in Environment, Sustainability Advocacy and Climate Change (REACH)
• SCIF and HPCC (High-Performance Computing Center)
• Nanotechnology Research Centre (NRC)
• SRM-DBT Partnership Platform
• Centre for Electric Mobility (CEM)
• SRM-BRIN Centre of Excellence in Automation Technologies
• SRM-Mitsubishi Electric Centre of Excellence in Factory Automation
• Centre of Excellence for Electronics Cooling, CFD Simulation
Centres of Excellence Medical & Health Sciences
• Neuro-Otology and Vestibular Laboratory
• SRM Centre for Clinical Trials and Research (CCTR)
• SRM Centre of Excellence for Treatment of Cleft Lip & Plate Care
• Molecular Diagnostic Centre
• SRM Centre for Clinical Pharmacology
• Autism Centre of Excellence
• Division of Medical Research

-- 33 of 74 --

Center for 	Cultural
and Language Studies

-- 34 of 74 --

35
The study of foreign languages and literature provides
valuable experience and a potential edge for future career
development of students.
The Language Centers at SRM impart the basic skills
in various foreign languages to Indian and International
students. This enhances their academic program and
enables them to study, work, live and even carry out
research in a different country. They are not only able to
interact with people from different cultures but also engage
with them on mutual interests with comfort and ease. SRM
aims to equip students with the basic four skills of the
language learnt - Listening, Speaking, Reading and Writing.
English Language Center
The SRM English Language Center provides opportunities
for the learner to acquire the English language skills with the
necessary fluency and competency to let them understand
their other courses at graduate and postgraduate levels.
ELS
Custom made programs are available for international
students even at the entry level. An ELS International
Pathways state-of-the-art Language Center is operating on
campus, open to students who are aspiring to go overseas
for higher education in countries like the USA, Australia, UK
and Canada.
Training in Other Foreign Languages
It is noteworthy that the SRM Language Center offers
German, French, Japanese, Chinese and Korean languages
for learners so that they can pursue degrees in the
academic major of their choice. It is mandatory for all B.
Tech. students to undergo this training for two semesters.
It is designed to produce students with dual strengths -
competency in professional and career domains.
Taiwan Education Center
An on-campus Taiwan Education Center has been
established in partnership with the National Tsing Hus
University to teach traditional Mandarin Chinese Language
to Indian students and to form a bridge between institutions
of higher education in India and Taiwan. It offers certification
courses at different levels.
IGCHE Program (Indo-Germanic Center for Higher
Education)
This is a special program offered by the Consortium of
German and Indian universities in which the students will
study the first three years at SRMIST and will continue
their fourth year in any one of the German universities. The
learners are given intensive training in German language and
the medium of instruction in their IV year will be German.
Their study in Germany opens up a plethora of employment
opportunities in the German companies in India and the
Indian companies in Germany.
Thamizh Academy
Thamizh is a modern and classical language with a rich
history and legacy going back 2,500 years, with inscriptional,
literary and commentarial texts. The Thamizh Academy
at SRM is engaged in the development of the Thamizh
language, literature, arts and research. It provides online
courses in Thamizh language and Thamizh Religious
Studies. The Academy offers diploma programs and book
publishing opportunities. The Academy has recognized,
honored and felicitated many distinguished scholars of
Thamizh, literary authors, musicians and film directors.
Every year, the Academy distributes awards worth H 220
lakhs to scholarly works under 11 categories such as fiction,
essay collection, children’s literature and research.
Honouring of Writers and Poets at ‘SRM Tamil Perayam Awards 2023’

-- 35 of 74 --

Career
Centre

-- 36 of 74 --

37
Career Centre is the focal point of career development for the students at the
university,
• Helps the budding and young minds of SRM to build interpersonal and industry related
skills in emerging Technologies.
• Conduct Campus Recruitment Program
• One-stop destination for all the external and internal entities and stake holders for
Career Related initiatives
The Career Centre in SRMIST plays a vital role in making SRMIST a favoured destination
for many national and international organisations to recruit fresh talent nurtured at the
Institute.
The Centre facilitates the placement of SRMIST students in top-notch companies.
Continuous institute-industry interaction, pre-joining learning initiatives, and participation
in industrial exhibitions, fairs, and seminars to promote interaction with the industries
and alumni activities are some of the initiatives of the Placement Office. The excellent
infrastructure of the Career Centre facilitates activities like pre-placement lectures,
written tests, group discussions, and interviews as per the requirements of the recruiting
organisations.
Academic Interfacing Programs (AIP)
The AIP team’s primary objective is to enhance student employability and assist industry
partners in acquiring a skilled workforce tailored to their unique needs. Focusing on
creating mutually rewarding engagement models, AIP facilitates seamless collaboration
between industry partners and our academic community. This ensures that our students
are well-versed in industry trends and equipped with certifications endorsed by leading
organisations.
Our Patrons
SRM Career Centre has an array of all the top industry players from each sector. A glimpse
of the few of 100s of companies visiting SRMIST are:
• IT Companies - TCS, Cognizant, Accenture, Wipro, Capgemini, Infosys, LTI Mindtree
• Product Companies – Google, Adobe, Atlassian, Oracle, Freshworks
• Analytics – MuSigma, Quantiphi Analytics, Tiger Analytics, Latentview Analytics
• BFSI – Wells Fargo, Morgan Stanley, Barclays, JP Morgan, BNY Mellon, Natwest
• Core – Maruti Suzuki, Ford, Renault Nissan, Anand Group, Murugappa Group, Bajaj
Auto, Tata Motors, Mahindra & Mahindra, JK Tyres, CEAT
• Banking – Federal Bank, Axis Bank, IDBI Bank, City Union Bank, IndusInd Bank
• Manufacturing – Wheels India, Havells India, Nestle, Exide
• Pharma – AstraZeneca, Roche, Johnson & Johnson, Novartis, Cipla
2023 Placement Figures
Companies
Visited Offers High Paying
Offers
Maximum
Salary
Average
Salary
1311 	13069 	3970 1 Crore Per
Annum 10.5 LPA
Activities
• Centralised team for Engineering,
Management, Science & Humanities,
Medical Sciences,
Law and Agricultural Sciences
• Hub for High Paying Recruiters
• Major recruiters from Fortune 500 list
• Highest number of Core Companies
• Specialized Training programs
• Internships with top corporates
• Well appreciated Industry Immersion
Programmes
• Active 100 + MOUS and 20 Centre Of
Excellence inside campus
• 50000 + Alumni Adding Value to the
Corporate World
• 100000 + Hours of Professional skills

-- 37 of 74 --

38
Entrepreneurship
and Innovation

-- 38 of 74 --

39
The Directorate of Entrepreneurship and Innovation (DEI) is an
independent entity that oversees the ecosystem within the campuses to encourage
and foster the startup culture amongst students, alumni and faculty members.
DEI works alongside the various colleges on multiple campuses to promote multi-
disciplinary teams to produce innovative and market-ready products that leverage
the vast intellectual property generated by the researchers and inventors.
Through its various verticals, DEI offers entrepreneurs multiple services, including
SEED Funding, Workspace, Legal Assistance, Patent Registration, Mentorship,
Fabrication Facility, Market Validation and Investor connect.
There are currently 22 startups from multiple domains incubated at DEI. These
include students, alumni, faculty as well as non-SRMIST founders. The startups are
involved in various fields such as e-commerce, electric mobility, drones, Edu tech,
Deep Tech, Climate tech and Services.
In the past two years, DEI has supported the incubatees to raise over Rs. 210 Crores
and graduated 10 startups successfully, through raising investments, acquisition
or through organic growth. These include Torus Robotics, Sure Local, ZED Digital,
Closer Look, B-Versity, Yogya.ai, Rizel Automotive, Paper Plane Communications,
Think Metal and Neur Industries.
Community Development & Culture
We believe in inculcating the values of collaborative efforts and leadership skills at
the core of every SRMite by interacting with students through various focused events
such as Showtime, Triumph Talks, Bootcamps, Community meetups, Student Run
Courses, Hackathons, and other programs soon to be introduced.
DEI’s Ecosystem includes services to founders who are in the pre-incubation
phase. Nearly 40 teams are in the Pre-incubation phase, fine-tuning their products
and solutions. They are supported by nearly 120+ Resident Mentors and a panel of
Industry Mentors and Investors.
The ecosystem provides various support services through the following centres.
• BRC - Bootstrappers’ Research Council
• CIAP – Center for Intellectual Asset Protection
• SIDC – SRM Innovation and Design Center
• FabLab - Makerspace
Bootstrappers’ Research Council (BRC)
BRC is a Section 8 Non-Profit company, a special purpose vehicle initiated by SRMIST
for Technology Business Incubation and Investment. BRC has been sanctioned Rs.
3 Crore under the Startup India Seed Fund Scheme (SISFS) by The Department of
Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), Ministry of Commerce and Industry,
Govt. of India.

-- 39 of 74 --

40
Center for Intellectual Asset Protection (CIAP)
SRMIST is a leading institution in Intellectual Property (IP) filing and commercialisation. The institution
has a well-defined IP policy that encourages faculty members, students, and innovators to consider
possible avenues for transforming their inventions into products beneficial to society on a larger scale.
The protection, managment, and commercialisation of IPs of SRMIST are managed by CIAP.
The achievements of SRMIST in the field of patents have been recognised by the Intellectual Property
Office, India, under the Department of Industrial Policy, Promotion of Ministry 	of Commerce and
Industry, Government of India, which has selected the institute for the prestigious National Intellectual
Property Award 2018. The award is under the category of “Top Indian Academic Institution for Patents
Commercialization” in recognition of the institute’s achievements in the field of patents.
CIAP regularly conducts programs designed to increase awareness, such as Patent School Workshops,
Patent Agent Certification Training and IPR and Patents & Design Filing.
With its commitment to Promote, Protect and Profit from the IP generated, the CIAP is currently working
towards establishing the Technology Transfer office to assist the inventors in commercializing their
discoveries.
SRM Innovation and Design Center (SIDC)
SRM Innovation and Design Centre offers various design-related courses for innovators. These courses
or programs aim to develop a design and entrepreneurial mindset, functional skills in design thinking,
approach to challenges, innovative product design, and prototyping entrepreneurial fundamentals among
students. Bootcamps, Triumph Talks and Hackathons are organized with industry mentors from the
relevant domains, enabling the experiential learning journey.
FABLAB – Makerspace
FabLab is a state-of-the-art facility where teams can ideate, innovate and fabricate prototypes. It is a 6500
sq. ft facility equipped with specialised machinery, tools, high-end workstations and inventory necessary
to create a prototype or product from an idea.
Innovators can use a wide range of materials such as wood, acrylics, wax, moulding and casting, metal,
and other materials for prototyping. We provide opportunities for rural communities to design and create
tools for solving local problems.
The lab provides access to sophisticated prototyping equipment, with the user primarily responsible for
moving ideas to products. The machines at Fablab include multiple power tools such as lathes, drills,
milling machines, bandsaws, 3D printers, laser cutters, metal laser cutters, CNC engravers, welding bays,
and specialized inventory to execute projects.
PCB designing and printing facility is available through the center for electronic skills development.

-- 40 of 74 --

41
NewGen IEDC
A Grant of 2.87 Crores was sanctioned by NSTEDB, DST (National Science & Technology
Entrepreneurship Development Board) for establishing NewGen IEDC (Innovation &
Entrepreneurship Development Cell) at SRMIST.
Apart from internal support, the DEI raises funds through its active collaborations and
alliances with various governmental, corporate and international organisations. These
include:
• Government: Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India, MoE’s Innovation Cell
and Institution’s Innovation Council, Intellectual Property Facilitation Center, Chennai,
NewGen IEDC (DST-NSTEDB, Gov of India).
• International: 	Jacobs 	Institute 	for 	Design 	Innovation, 	Sutardja 	Center 	for
Entrepreneurship & Technology University of Berkeley, Kingston University, London and
Teesside University, UK.
• Corporate: School of Design Thinking & Intellect Design; The Chennai Angels, Tie
Chennai and Campus Angels fund.
Events at DEI
Multiple 	outreach 	activities 	aimed 	at 	increasing 	awareness 	and 	encouraging
entrepreneurship are conducted year-round by DEI
• Triumph Talks - A series of talks where eminent personalities have a one-on-one
conversation with the students of our community, to help them develop their creative
thinking and mindset required to excel in their respective fields.
• Showtime, is a platform which can be used by students to showcase any new invention,
prototype or technology they have come up with.
• Entrepreneurship Boot Camp (EBC) – The Bootcamp, centred on the Berkeley Method
of Entrepreneurship, helps students and early-stage startup founders to understand
general concepts through practice, observation, and critical thinking. EBC is conducted
twice a year.
• EXPO - It is an event where the best teams from SRM show off their finest craftsmanship
and discuss at length about their products. For the last edition, we had the extremely
talented UAV (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle, SCRO (Student Copter Research Organisation)
and Team Spars (SAE Aero design team) showcasing their latest and greatest products
and prototypes.
• Hackathons - We organise sector-wise hackathons to provide students with a platform
to solve some of the pressing problems in society.
Seed
funding up
to 25 lakhs
per startup.
26 Students
and Faculty
startups
Incubated.

-- 41 of 74 --

Beyond
the Classroom

-- 42 of 74 --

43
Clubs, Chapters, Societies and Festivals
The pressures of a highly demanding curriculum can get to
even the best students. Beyond academics, SRMIST nurtures
students by fostering a supportive community through
extracurricular activities, clubs, and mentorship programs.
It encourages self-discovery and personal growth and instils
essential life skills through workshops and student clubs
catering to the student community’s various academic and
extra-curricular interests.
These 	societies 	and 	groups 	organise 	many 	events,
competitions, workshops, and seminars throughout the
year and provide many networking opportunities. Here is a
glimpse of some of the diverse activities at the Campus.
Events and Festivals
SHURU
Fresher’s Day celebrations provide an ideal platform for
newcomers to showcase their talents. The program also
introduces new entrants to the various cultural activities
organised by the University.
Houses and Competitions
The university students are grouped into eight houses and
compete in cultural activities such as JHALAK, TARANA,
KHEL, and club activities.
AARUSH
It is a student-driven National-Level Techno-Management
Fest which was inaugurated in 2007 by the Late former
President of India, Dr. A. P. J. Abdul Kalam, Aaruush provides
students from all over the country with opportunities to
showcase their talents in technology and management.
The Event usually has more than 40,000 participants and is
marked by events, exhibitions, guest lectures, conferences,
industrial conclaves, and workshops. The events are graced
with the presence of eminent personalities.
JHALAK and TARANA
An inter-house cultural competition that encourages the
students to exhibit their talents in music, dance, drama,
variety entertainment, and fashion shows is held every
semester.
KHEL
The university's inter-house sports competitions encourage
enthusiastic student participation in a wide variety of sports
and athletic activities.
MILAN
This is a spectacular four-day national-level cultural festival.
Over 15 editions, Milan has established for itself a strong
brand that sees participants from over 190 colleges from the
southern states alone. This event is ripe with an audience
pool of 2,80,000 and keeps growing. Participants compete
in nearly 100 cultural, literary, and sports events. Prominent
actors and celebrities grace the festival as chief guests,
special invitees, and jurors.
CLUBS
Rotaract Club
The club is based on philanthropic values and objectives
and aims to bring together young adults for the benefit
and welfare of society. Frontliners aged 18 and older get a
chance to trade schemes with headmen in the community
and flourish initiatives and professional skills, all while
serving the community. Working under the Rotary Club
of Meenambakkam, young pioneers of the club make it
their mission to achieve sustainable development goals for
making lasting positive changes in the world.
Astrophilia Club
This is a club devoted to studying stars, constellations,
planets, galaxies, and all other things that twinkle in the sky.
It is where students can learn and spread awareness about
space and astronomy through dedicated scientific and
philosophical discussions and interactions. It allows amateur
astronomists and physics enthusiasts to learn more about
the vast and enigmatic universe and carry forward the legacy
of the cosmos.
Fashion Club
The club provides a place for students to express their
inherent artistic flair in the fashion world. They set trends and
break them, too, thus genuinely pioneering the meaning of
beauty and redefining it. It is here that students can learn to
groom themselves and carry themselves perfectly down a
narrow runway right into the grandiose and glamorous world
of fashion.
Music Club
The club is where students with musical inclinations can
come together to display and sharpen their harmonious
talents. It helps students to assemble their knowledge of
music to create a harmonious crescendo. Being a part of this
club is a wonderful opportunity to meet people with varied
tastes in music, equally passionate about music, and people
who may give you a new perspective on the way you look at
the world of symphony.
Literature Club
“The pen is mightier than the sword.”
"While thought exists, words are alive, and literature becomes
an escape, not from, but into the living." - Cyril Connoly. The
club is an utopia for thinkers, readers, and writers; it is where
literary minds come together for scholarly brainstorming
sessions and discussions; it showers the enchantment of
poems, stories, and essays in young minds, thus giving life to
their words, thoughts, and imagination.

-- 43 of 74 --

44
Festival Club
The true beauty of culture can be observed in the way we
rejoice in them. The club aims to make each regional festival
a noteworthy experience. The club celebrates the diversity
of the country's different cultures. It helps students seek
cultural enrichment, education, novelty and socialisation by
witnessing and celebrating various festivals belonging to
multiple cultures and religions.
Dance Clubs
Dynamic and talented students from different genres of
dance forms, ranging from Indian classical Bharatha Natyam
to Hip Hop, form their own genre dance club enabling them
to nurture their talents, celebrate their diversity, and express
the creative fluidity of young minds. The diverse dance clubs
make students from varied disciplines not only bond together
and become more sociable but also dapt to creative, fun, and
easy ways of learning dance and enable them to be fit and
sociable.
Movies and Dramatics Club
The club collaborates with young entertainers to celebrate
various aspects of the performing arts. It welcomes students
on board to explore more about the thespian world. It aims to
discover the innate artistic talents among students, nurture
them to their fullest, and provide a platform for students with
the talent, confidence and passion to do something unique.
The Drama Club promotes communication skills, teamwork,
socialisation and awarness.
Creative Arts Club
From cave paintings to abstract art, creativity has always
existed, manifesting in various forms and embellishing
and astonishing the world. The club creates an outlet for
this creative energy within every living soul. It provides an
opportunity for students to express and display their true,
vibrant, imaginative selves and aims to enrich and foster an
interest in art and personal expression.
Electronics Club
Electronics Club is a student-run organisation that strives
to impart enthusiasm and passion for electronics and allied
fields among students of ECE. It aims to cater to the various
primary needs that are to be addressed to keep in pace with
the ever-evolving field of electronics. It also helps to uncover
those key topics that are not part of the curriculum. “COMET”,
an E-magazine, is brought out by this club. TEDxSRM
Kattankulathur Conference and Arduino Day are hosted by
the Electronics Club.
Github Community SRM
GitHub 	Community 	SRM 	is 	the 	official 	student-led
community spearheading the Open-Source Revolution
at SRMIST, Chennai. It is an affiliation of GitHub with the
SRMIST-KTR GitHub Organisation. GitHub Community
SRM has organised multiple events to spread awareness
and knowledge about open-source software. Some of them
include OSSmosis, Skilltober, WomenInTech, and Unhashed.
GitHub Community SRM organises the flagship event,
'#OSSome Hacks, ' a hackathon aimed at innovating open
source.
Block Chain Club
Blockchain Club SRM is a pioneering student-led community
at SRM University dedicated to exploring the world of
blockchain technology, Web3, and decentralisation. With a
growing membership, this club fosters young and inquisitive
minds and equips them with the necessary knowledge and
skills to make a significant impact in this transformative field.
The Club has a clear vision of empowering blockchain
professionals and enthusiasts, ensuring they stay informed
about the latest advancements in the industry. Through a
wide range of activities and projects, students have numerous
opportunities to apply their knowledge and gain practical
experience in the field. The club has established partnerships
with several leading companies in the blockchain space,
including Lumos Labs, Router, 5ire Chain, Polygon, Roni

-- 44 of 74 --

45
Analytics, Biconomy, and more. These collaborations enable
members to benefit from real-world insights and networking
opportunities with industry experts.
As an active presence in Chennai's blockchain community,
Blockchain Club SRM organises regular activities and events
to facilitate knowledge sharing, skill development, and
collaboration among its members. Notably, the club recently
hosted the largest blockchain hackathon in Tamil Nadu,
featuring an impressive prize pool of $69,420 in SRM. This
event showcased the exceptional talent and innovative ideas
of club members, thereby driving blockchain innovation in
the region. Moreover, the club proudly oversees the Polygon
Guild Chennai, solidifying its commitment to the growth
and development of the blockchain ecosystem. The club's
partnerships grant members access to a diverse range of
resources and valuable industry connections.
Data Science Community SRM
Data Science Community SRM is a technology-driven
Data Science-based student-led innovation community
at SRMIST”. It does real-time projects, research activities,
hosting events and workshops primarily focusing on
Data Science, Machine Learning, Al, Blockchain, IoT, Web
Development and more. They guide and teach all those who
aspire to work in these fields and help them attain better skills
and knowledge.
Student Copter Research Organisation (SRM-SCRO)
Student Copter Research Organization is a dynamic
student-based research team with copters as its primary
focus; the team now is a highly multidisciplinary team and
consists of students from various domains such as Design
and Fabrication, Flight Systems, Computer Vision, Web
Development, & Corporate. With the zest to Inspire, Initiate
and Innovate this team brings many laurels to the university
by participating in multiple national and international events.
Some prominent events and projects include Aero 360, a
national-level aero modelling competition; the Singapore
Space Challenge ’13, AAWMD – Autonomous Ambient
Weather Monitoring Drone wherein the team had to create
an innovative weather monitoring system; the International
Micro Aerial Vehicle 2014; SAREX18 (Search and Rescue
EXercise-2018), AAKRUTI 2018, Op Rahat – Techfest at
IIT Bombay and Tatamakerthon challenge at IIT Bombay.
The team hosts the national level aero fest ‘Udaan’ with
events such as Drone races, workshops for 3D printing and
crashed aircraft safety drills. The team has won 1st place in
the Forensic Hackathon organised by Govt. of Uttarakhand,
the XDesign challenge conducted by Dassault Systems, and
Aerothon 2021 organised by SAE India. With the winning tag
of the Aakruthi 2018 Design Challenge held in Dallas, Texas
(USA), which SolidWorks conducted, the team was selected
for the Smart India Hackathon for two consecutive years.
With all the above achievements, SCRO is also proud of
publishing multiple research papers in the field of aviation.
Next-Gen AI
Hailed as the ultimate future technology, Artificial Intelligence
is all set to take over the world and further enhance the
essence of human life. Comprehending this vision, the idea
for CINTEL’s Next-Gen AI was born. Providing an educational
and fun milieu, we create a foreground for students to
acquire practical knowledge in the prodigious field of
Artificial Intelligence and equip them with suitable strengths
to undertake utile and creative projects involving the various
subsidiaries of the field. We provide collaborative projects,
upskilling programs, summer school programs, research
opportunities and help with internship opportunities. The
opportunities and experience provided by CINTEL’s Next-Gen
AI are sure to enhance the students' resumes and help them
secure good placements.
IoT Alliance
IoT Alliance is a not-for-profit club of SRMIST that revolves
around the world of the Internet of Things and allied
technologies. This club is unique as it is one of the very
few clubs whose team composition includes students,
faculty and alumni as its stakeholders. Our team indulges in
research and product development catering to Indian as well
as international requirements revolving around IoT, AI, ML
and Data Analytics. As part of international engagements,
we have successfully completed many projects, and one
of the notable projects is the collaborative initiative with
Sweden-based start-up WeberMobility AB. Also, the club
has participated and won in many Hackathons, including the
Syndicate Bank Hackathon. Moreover, this club engages in
knowledge dissemination to students through a series of
workshops and national and international internships. This
club has international collaborative projects with countries
including Australia, Sweden, Rwanda, etc.; this club is selected
under AICTE, Government of India scheme to be a Role
Model Club of SRM and has received funding of H200000.
visit: www.iotalliance.in.
School of Architecture and Interior Design- Student
Association
The Student Association is conducted every week with
activities like competitions, seminars, workshops, etc.
Students at the School of Architecture and Interior Design
are randomly separated into four Houses to induce unity.
Each house has separate faculty mentors for guidance and
support. The office bearers of the houses are elected every
year for the smooth functioning of the association.
Houses details are as follows:
1. Modernist - Ar. Prasanna S
2. Minimalist - Ar. Dharani S Dharan
3. Brutalist - Ar. Vishva Dharani V M
4. Expressionist - Ar. Deepika Padmanabhan

-- 45 of 74 --

46
BioNexus
BioNexus is a Biotech Student Club with the backup of
Anveshna (Another Biotech Students Association) of the
Department of Biotechnology, School of Bioengineering,
SRMIST. This club offers multilateral opportunities for
students to explore entrepreneurship (Team Alpha), skill
development (Team Beta), social outreach (Team Gamma),
networking (Team Delta), and mental wellness (Team Psy).
It might help students to get the most out of their campus
life experience while they are at SRMIST for their academic
pursuits. 	BioNexus is expected to help in students’
transformation and holistic development in a big way by
discovering their own niche amongst the extra- and co-
curricular activities.
Team Camber Racing
Team Camber Racing was established in September 2009 as
SRMIST’s official Formula Student combustion team. It has
been developed, transformed, and nurtured by undergraduate
students of various engineering disciplines who apply their
collective intellect to engineer vehicles.
Since then, the team has built nine cars and won 24 awards,
including two national championships at SUPRA SAE INDIA
2012 and 2014. With this, the team has firmly established its
credentials as the fastest-growing FS team in India.
The 2019 season had proven fruitful for the team, who, bagged
first place in the Business Plan Presentation event in SUPRA
SAE INDIA 2019. They also bagged 2 nd place in the Business
Plan Presentation event, 3 rd place in the Design Event, and
3 rd place in acceleration at Formula Bharat, proving to be
the fastest single-cylinder car there. They are also placed in
the top 10 in both Formula Bharat, as well as SUPRA SAE,
enjoying a successful run at both championships.
After the pandemic, in 2022, the team secured the overall
2 nd position in Formula Bharath 2022. The other categorical
awards include 2 nd position in Dynamic Events, 2 nd Fastest
Car of the Event, 2 nd position in Autocross, 2 nd position in
Endurance, and 2 nd position in Costing and Manufacturing.
Today, the Camber Racing badge is proudly worn by over 30
passionate students, each contributing their unique expertise
to various aspects of the project. From powertrain and vehicle
dynamics to chassis and frame, electronics and telemetry,
sponsorship management, finance, and branding, our team
is a testament to the power of diversity and collaboration.
4ZE Racing
The word ‘4ZE’ stands for “FOR ZERO EMISSION”. 4ZE
Racing is the official student formula electric racing team of
SRMIST. It is a team of 60 highly dedicated and passionate
undergraduate 	students 	whose 	main 	passion 	lies 	in
engineering and achieving new possibilities. The team works
toward energy efficiency and aims to develop a sustainable
environment. The team is completely managed by students,
and its three domains, Mechanical, Electrical and Corporate,
work hard together to get it rolling on the ground and make
it to the level where it can compete with the cars worldwide.
The spark was ignited in 2012 when a group of students
decided to build a car using the knowledge they gained from
college and give the world a non-polluting vehicle. The team
participates in international events such as FSAE held across
the globe and competes with world-class teams.
National Service Scheme (NSS)
The National Service Scheme (NSS) was commissioned by
SRMIST in 2003. The National Service Scheme (NSS) program
attempts to develop the principles of civic participation,
social responsibility, and active citizenship in students.
The program cultivates a generation of compassionate,
responsible, and socially conscious students who are eager
to contribute to the well-being of their neighbourhoods and
the nation. It serves as a bridge between social development
and education. Every year, the NSS student volunteers
observe Independence Day, NSS Day, and Republic Day on

-- 46 of 74 --

47
campus by inviting students from government schools and
organising fun activities that promote social awareness,
order, cleanliness, discipline, healthy eating practices, and
environmental awareness.
National Cadet Corps (NCC)
The SRM NCC Army Wing was started in 1996. The first and
second-year students are enrolled for a duration of three
years. SRM ARMY Wing enrolled girls in the NCC since 2005.
The Naval Wing of SRM NCC was inaugurated in 2021. The
NCC cadets actively participate in the Independence Day and
Republic Day celebrations on the campus. Annual Training
Camp, Republic Day Camp (RDC–New Delhi), Inter Group
Competitions (IGC), National Integration Camp (NIC) and
special camps such as Trekking Camp, Boat Pulling Camp,
Sea Attachment Camp, NTAC, NIC, Firing Camp are held
periodically. The NCC cadets also get the opportunity to
visit various countries like Singapore, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh,
Maldives and Taiwan through the Youth Exchange Program
(YEP) to represent our country.
Women Empowerment Club
The 	club 	is 	dedicated 	to 	educating 	and 	spreading
awareness amongst people about women’s issues and
their empowerment. It encourages women to represent
themselves and be a part of every field, It also creates an
awareness about their capabilities. The mission of this club
is to address gender inequality issues through presentations,
symposiums, awareness camps, and discussions.
Social Club
The club is dedicated to fostering the spirit of generosity,
humility, empathy, camaraderie and social cooperation in the
students, making them aware of their social responsibilities
and encouraging them to serve the community. It organises
social service events, awareness camps and volunteering
events where the young people of the institution can help
make the world more tolerant, kind and compassionate.
Gaming Club
The club is devoted to teaching, promoting, and organising
e-games and e-gaming tournaments. It helps students learn
the required techniques, hacks, and tricks to thoroughly
enjoy e-games and feel a sense of accomplishment and
progression in life.
Quiz Club
Quizzing is an art and a test of intellect. The club aims to
identify students with such talent and create opportunities
for them to sharpen their quizzing skills. It is a unique and
exciting way to motivate, encourage, and reward a flair for
quizzing and an unquenchable thirst for knowledge.
For a complete list please visit https://www.srmist.edu.in/
Professional Chapters:
• TERI – The Energy and Resource Institute
• SRM SAE Collegiate Club
• SAEINDIA SRM Aerospace Collegiate Club
• Architecture and Design Students Association
• ISTE – The Indian Society for Technical Education
• Food Process Engineering Association
• ICI – Indian Concrete Institute
• IIChE – Indian Institute of Chemical Engineers
• SRM-IET – Institution of Engineering & Technology
• IETE – Institution of Electronics & Telecommunication
Engineers
• IEI (Student Chapter)
• Sri Ramanujan Mathematics Club
• IEEE 	– 	Institute 	of 	Electrical 	and 	Electronics
Engineers
• EEE Association
• Marine Technology Society (MTS) student chapter
• IE (I) student chapter
• ENFUSE student chapter
• IEEE – IAS chapter
• IEEE Power Engineering Society
• EIEA – Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
Association
• SPIE – The International Society for Optics and
Photonics
• CSI – Computer Society of India
• ISACA – Information Systems Audit & Control
Association
• SRM – ACM – Association for Computing Machinery
• ISA – The International Society of Automation
• ICEA – Instrumentation & Control Engineering
Association
• ASME SRM – The American Society of Mechanical
Engineers
• ISHRAE – The Indian Society of Heating, Refrigerating
and Air Conditioning Engineers
• QUANTA – Nanotechnology Student Association
• QCFI – Quality Circle Forum of India
• SWEA – Software Engineering Association
• MTS – Marine Technology Society
• ASCE – American Society of Civil Engineers
• IGS – Indian Geotechnical Society
• ACI – American Concrete Institute
• SESI – Solar Energy Society of India
• EWB – Engineers without Borders
• Material Advantage Chapter
• CINTEL Association
• RM – ACM – W-Students Chapter
• SRM ACM Students Chapter
• SRM ACM HCI (ACM SIG)
• SRM ACM SigCHI (ACM SIG)
• Data Science Community SRM
• MIDL ÉBS

-- 47 of 74 --

Reaching 	for
the 	stars
Ms Nethra Kumanan, represented India at the last Olympics

-- 48 of 74 --

49
Sports play a significant role in the society providing physical and mental benefits to
individuals and also impacts the society as a whole.
The Department of Physical Education and the Department of Yoga, with the help
of state-of-the-art facilities and dedicated coaches, have nurtured well-rounded
individuals who thrive academically and athletically.
SRMIST's commitment to nurturing sporting talent has led to a remarkable track
record in inter-university, state, and national sports tournaments across India for
the past two decades. The Directorate of Sports has proudly organised 60 National
Inter-University Tournaments under the auspices of the Association of Indian
Universities. Our University teams, including our Chess, Basketball, Volleyball, Ball
Badminton, Cricket, Tennis, Table Tennis, Kabaddi, Football, and Hockey teams,
have not just participated in these tournaments but have emerged as champions,
bringing numerous accolades to SRMIST at both the zonal and all-India levels.
Also degree programmes in Physical Education and Yoga are being offered. The
Department of Yoga conducts workshops and seminars to promote physical,
mental, emotional, and spiritual well-being. In association with the Department of
Physical Education, it also holds morning and evening yoga classes every day.
Sports Quota & Sports Scholarships
The University is committed to supporting deserving students with talent for sports
and athletics. Under the Sports Quota, students are eligible for tuition fee waivers
ranging from 25% to 100%, along with free boarding and lodging. Even non-Sports
Quota students who excel in sports are not left behind, as they are awarded tuition
fee waivers based on their performance. All students, regardless of their quota, are
provided with the proper nutrition needed for their sports activities. In fact, the total
scholarship amount awarded by the University for all sports quota students in an
academic year is approximately Rs 6 crores. Our coaches, certified by the Sports
Authority of India (SAI), are dedicated to developing the talents of our students.
Chancellor of SRMIST, Dr. T. R. Paarivendhar, honoured the sports champ with a cash award of Rs. 25 lakh for her outstanding
feat of qualifying for the Paris Olympics 2024 in the women’s dinghy (ILCA 6) category.
SRMIST boasts 40
international-level
players across different
sports.
Out of 84
Grandmasters in India,
13 are from SRMIST

-- 49 of 74 --

Ms. Malvika Bansod, an international badminton player

-- 50 of 74 --

51
SRMIST 	envisions 	our 	players 	representing 	India 	in 	international
tournaments. A proud moment for SRMIST was when our sailor, Ms
Nethra Kumanan, represented India at the Tokyo 2020 Olympics, making
her as the first Indian sailor to achieve this honour. We also boast over
40 international-level players across different sports, including notable
athletes like Ms. Malvika Bansod, an international badminton player, and Mr.
Vikkas, an international swimmer. Remarkably, out of 84 Grandmasters in
India, 13 are from SRMIST. The Directorate also publishes the "Sports Reap"
e-magazine, celebrating our sports achievements.
The following state-of-the-art Sports Infrastructure facilities are
available in SRMIST at Kattankulathur Campus:
• 4-Volleyball Courts with floodlit and Link mesh fence around the courts
(2640 Square metres)
• 5-Basketball Courts with floodlit and Link mesh fence around the courts.
(5000 Square metres)
• 2-Football fields with Link mesh fence around the courts around the fields
(18000 Square metres)
• 1-Hockey Fields. (7000 Square metres)
• 400 metres Standard mud track with a raised border. (21,600 Square
metres)
• 5- Tennis Courts cum Ball badminton Courts with floodlit and Link mesh
fence around the courts. (3000 Square metres)
• 2- Tennis Synthetic surface Courts with floodlit with link mesh fence
around the courts. (2500Square metres)
• 1Turf Cricket wicket. 720 Square metres. Cricket net practice pitch (3
No’s). Cricket Pitch 3 -720 Square meters
• Mini Indoor Stadium with a provision for 2-Badminton courts and Table
Tennis. (32 meters length Width 9 Meters)
• The A/c Hall for practicing chess. (150 Square meters).
• The total Playing field in Square metres: 58510
• Multipurpose Airconditioned Indoor Stadium
• A World Class Swimming Pool with a Warmup and Diving Pool (Olympic
Standard).
• A gallery with a seating capacity of 1000 Spectators is being constructed
for hosting Athletics and Cricket.
In recognition of our
efforts, SRMIST was
honoured with the
Sports Star ACES Award
by the Hindu group
of publications as the
Best University for the
Promotion of Sports in
India for 2024

-- 51 of 74 --

Scholarships
& Bank Loans

-- 52 of 74 --

53
Several scholarship schemes and access to bank loans at SRM help students meet
the cost of their studies. Last year alone, SRM awarded scholarships worth 71
crores and facilitated bank loans to a good number of students. All going to show
that regardless of one’s financial background, meritorious students can realize their
dream of studying at SRMIST.
Scholarship Schemes
Scholarships, grants and assistantships are available. In general, scholarships
and assistantships are awarded based on academic merit while grants are
based on financial need. Scholarships and grants are available for all engineering
undergraduate programs. Assistantships in teaching and research are available for
engineering postgraduate and doctoral students.
Founder’s Scholarship
This is a prestigious scholarship with a full waiver of tuition fees, free board and
lodging in the university hostel, and transportation. It is given to toppers in school
finals, SRMJEEE (1-100 rank), JEE (Advanced), and sports achievers.
SRM Merit Scholarship
SRMJEEE Rank holders for B.Tech admission from 101-500 are eligible for a 100%
tuition fee waiver.
Chancellor Constituency
Students from the Perambalur parliamentary constituency, on approval of the
Chancellor, are awarded a 100% waiver of Tuition fees, Hostel fees, exam fees, etc.
Socio-Economic Scholarship
The scholarship is awarded to NGOs and students of tribal communities based on
the recommendation of the Puthiyathalaimurai Foundation, Agaram Foundation,
Ramakrishna Mission, Shiv Nadar, and Nobel Laureate Satyarthi.
Students of low-income families from the film fraternity, recommended by FEFSI
and Chinnathirai are awarded Tutuin fee waiver ranging from 25-100%.
Tuition Fee Waivers
A tuition fee waiver between 25% and 100% is given to students on academic merit,
achievement in sports, economic background, minority community with economic
background and those who are differently-abled.
Semester Abroad Scholarships
These are given to meritorious students pursuing a semester abroad in leading
partner universities of SRM.
Educational Bank Loans
Several nationalised and private banks, recognizing SRM’s reputation, visit the
campus during counselling to sanction on-the-spot student educational bank loans.
SRMIST awarded
Scholarships worth
71 crores

-- 53 of 74 --

AGRICULTURAL
SCIENCES

-- 54 of 74 --

55
Provides the perfect learning environment with the main aim of educating and
grooming students into trained professional managers in the field of Agriculture and
Horticulture. Several infrastructure facilities have been created towards Agricultural
education. Adequate numbers of smart classrooms with Smart Board & WiFi network,
excellent computer facilities and departmental laboratories have been created in
the SRM-College of Agricultural Sciences at Vendhar Nagar, Baburayanpettai near
Acharapakkam in about 187 acres of land and started functioning from March 2021.
The UG programme B.Sc., (Hons) Horticulture was started from the academic year
2018-19 and B.Sc., (Hons) Agriculture was introduced from 2019-20.
A fully equipped library with all the latest subject related books and a main library
with more than one lakh books, a Conference hall with video conferencing facilities
and audio–video (AV) laboratory to train students in English and various skills
essential for communication like computer-assisted language learning software is
available. Students are also trained in various agriculture related software such as
QGIS, GrassGIS, ILWIS and Map Window for applying the geographical information
systems (GIS) in Agriculture.
A team of eminent qualified Ph.D. Degree holders, well-qualified, experienced and
dedicated, research-minded, dynamic and committed Faculty and academic staff
members in the relevant branches of Agriculture and Horticulture are the backbone
for the institute. The college has excellent Student - Faculty ratio.
Students can access high-speed internet connection at any time, no matter
where they are on campus. Apart from this, the institute has a good playground to
encourage students to take part in sports, games and yoga activities.
SRMIST reserves the right to add/ remove programmes depending on the viability to offer the same
Salient Features
• Hi-tech Agriculture and
Horticulture
• Precision Farming
• Micro-irrigation
• Remote sensing / GIS in
Agriculture
• Sensor based Farming
• Urban Horticulture and Landscape
Architecture
• Farm Mechanization
• Food Processing and Value
Addition
• Agripreneurship Development
• Environmental Management
• Climate Smart Agriculture
• Organic Agriculture
• World Class Infrastructure
Facilities
• Digital Modern Campus
• Well Qualified Professors
• Digital Library and Latest Books
Undergraduate Programmes
B.Sc. (Hons) – Agriculture | B.Sc. (Hons) – Horticulture | B.Sc. (Hons) – Agri-
Business Management | B.Sc. (Hons) – Food Nutrition and Dietetics
Postgraduate Programmes
M.Sc (Agriculture) – Agricultural Economics | Agronomy | Agricultural Extension
Education | Entomology | Genetics and Plant Breeding | Plant Pathology | Soil
Sciences
M.Sc (Horticulture) – Fruit Science | Vegetable Science | Floriculture and
Landscaping
Faculty of Agricultural Sciences

-- 55 of 74 --

ENGINEERING
& TECHNOLOGY

-- 56 of 74 --

57
SRMIST’s engineering programmes endeavor to be at the
forefront of innovation.They also foster multi-disciplinary
collaborations aimed at solving the most pressing global
problems. Our mission is to seek solutions to global
challenges by using the power of engineering principles,
techniques and systems.
We believe that engineers should not only possess
deep technical excellence, but also nurture creativity,
cultural awareness and entrepreneurial skills that come
from exposure to science, business, medicine and other
disciplines – all integral part of the SRM experience.
Our goal is to deliver world class, solutions driven programs
that inspire curiosity and generate new knowledge and
discoveries in our quest for excellence we are proud to say
that Engineering & Technology has been awarded 13 th
rank in the NIRF 2024 survey. The School of Architecture,
a constituent of the Faculty of Engineering & Technology
of SRMIST has been awarded 11th rank by NIRF in the 2024
survey. Our collaboration with over 50 of the world’s best
universities and 215 corporates, strengthens our academic
and research programs.
SRMIST encourages and leverages collaborations within
the institution, which caters to 62,000+ students and 3500+
faculty in diverse fields besides Engineering & Technology
such as Medicine, Science & Humanities, Management, Law,
and Agricultural Sciences. Through our connected eco-
system, we serve as a platform for our Engineering students'
interdisciplinary research projects and other collaborative
initiatives
The Engineering and Technology faculty comprises of 7
Schools and 19 Departments. Each school is headed by a
Dean / Chairperson and comprises various Departments of
Engineering, clubbed on the basis of their domain expertise.
With students seeking more inter-disciplinary programs
and flexibility in course curriculum, SRMIST has addressed
this demand by completely leaving the option of programme
path to the students.
A student shall have the option of choosing any one of the
following pathways
(i) Major (ii) Major with Specialisation (iii) Major with Minor
or Major with specialisation and a Minor.
• Admission to all the programmes of Faculty of
Engineering & Technology except Architecture are
done through SRMJEEE
• For Architecture courses Admission is done through
NATA / PG NATA
Faculty of Engineering & Technology

-- 57 of 74 --

58
B.Tech Programmes
• Aerospace Engineering
• Artificial Intelligence
• Automation and Robotics
• Automobile Engineering
• Automobile Engineering w/s in
Automotive Electronics
• Automobile Engineering w/s in
Vehicles Testing
• Automotive Engineering
• Biomedical Engineering (BME)
• Biomedical Engineering
(Machine Intelligence)
• Biotechnology
• Biotechnology (Computational
Biology)
• Biotechnology (Food Technology)
• Biotechnology w/s in Genetic
Engineering
• Biotechnology w/s in Regenerative
Medicine
• Chemical Engineering
• Civil Engineering
• Civil Engineering with Computer
Applications
• Computer Science and Business
System (in partnership with TCS)
• Computer Science and Engineering
• Computer Science and Engineering
(Data Science)
• CSE w/s in Artificial Intelligence and
Machine Learning
• CSE w/s in Big Data Analytics
• CSE w/s in Block chain Technology
• CSE w/s in Cloud Computing
• CSE w/s in Computer Networking
• CSE w/s in Cyber Security
• CSE w/s in Gaming Technology
• CSEw/s in Information Technology
• CSE w/s in Internet of Things (IOT)
• CSE w/s in Software Engineering
• Electric Vehicle Technology
• Electrical and Electronics Engineering
• ECE w/s in Data Science
• Electronics and Communication
Engineering
• ECE w/s in Cyber Physical Systems
• Electronics and Computer Engineering
• Electronics and Instrumentation
Engineering
• Electronics Engineering (VLSI Design
and Technology)
• Mathematics and Computing
• Mechanical Engineering
• Mechanical Engineering (Automation
and Robotics)
• Mechanical Engineering w/s in
Artificial Intelligence and Machine
Learning
• Mechatronics Engineering
• Mechatronics Engineering
(Autonomous Driving Technology)
• Mechatronics Engineering (Immersive
Technologies)
• Mechatronics Engineering (Industrial
IoT and Systems Engineering)
• Mechatronics Engineering w/s in
Robotics
• Nanotechnology
Integrated M.Tech Programmes
• Artificial Intelligence
• Computer Science and Engineering
• CSE w/s in Cognitive Computing
• CSE w/s in Cyber Security & Digital
Forensics
• CSE w/s in Data Science
• ECE w/s in Micro Electronics System
Design
• Material Science and Engineering
• Mechanical Engineering
M.Tech Programmes
• Aerospace Engineering
• Automation and Robotics
• Automotive Hybrid Systems
Engineering
• Automotive Technology
• Biomedical Engineering
• Big Data Analytics
• Biotechnology
• Chemical Engineering
• Cloud Computing
• Cloud Computing and Block Chain
• Computer Aided Design
• Construction Engineering and
Management
• Computer Science and Engineering
• Computer Science and Engineering
w/s in Full Stack
• Data Engineering
• Data Science
• Electric Vehicle Technology
• Electronics and Control Engineering
• Embedded System Technology
• Environmental Engineering
• Financial Technologies
• Food and Nutritional Biotechnology
• Food Safety and Quality Management
• Genetic Engineering
• Geotechnical Engineering
• Information Security and Cyber
Forensics
• Internet of Things
• Mechatronics Engineering
• Nanotechnology
• Power Electronics and Drives
• Power Systems
• Remote Sensing and GIS
• Robotics
• Solar Energy
• Structural Engineering
• Thermal Engineering
• VLSI Design
• Wireless Communication Technology
Post Graduate Diploma & Diploma
Programme
• Advanced PG Diploma Life Science
Technology
B.Tech Programmes (Part-Time)
• Automobile engineering
• Civil Engineering
• Electrical and Electronics Engineering
• Mechanical engineering
M.Tech Programmes (Part-Time)
• Artificial Intelligence
• Artificial Intelligence & Data Science
• Big Data Analytics
• Cloud Computing and Block Chain
• Computer Science and Engineering
• Computer science and Engineering
w/s in Full Stack
• Cyber Security
• Data Engineering
• Data Science
Architecture (UG)
• B.Arch
• B.Des (Interior Design)
Architecture (PG)
• M.Arch (Architectural Design)
• M.Des (Public Space Design)
Programmes offered at SRMIST
Kattankulathur
*w/s - with specialization

-- 58 of 74 --

59
B.Tech. Programmes
• Artificial Intelligence
• Biomedical Engineering (BME)
• Biotechnology
• Civil Engineering
• Computer Science and Business
System (with TCS partnership)
• Computer Science and Engineering
• CSE w/s in Big Data Analytics
• CSE w/s in Artificial Intelligence and
Machine Learning
• CSE w/s in Cloud Computing
• CSE w/s in Cyber Security
• CSE w/s in Gaming Technology
• CSE w/s in Internet of Things (IOT)
• Electrical and Electronics Engineering
• Electronics and Communication
Engineering
• Electronics and communication
Engineering W/S in Data Science
• Information Technology
• Mechanical Engineering
M.Tech. Programmes
• Computer Aided Design
• Construction Engineering and
Management
• Structural Engineering
B.Tech Programmes (Part-Time)
• Civil Engineering
• Electrical and Electronics Engineering
• Mechanical Engineering
M.Tech Programmes (Part-Time)
• Structural Engineering
Architecture (UG)
• B.Arch
• B.Des (Interior Design)
Architecture (PG)
• M.Arch (Architectural Design)
B.Tech. Programmes
• Artificial Inteligence
• Biotechnology
• Biotechnology (Food Technology)
• Biomedical Engineering
• Computer Science and Engineering
W/S in Block chain Technology
• Computer science and Engineering
(Data science)
• Computer science and Business
systems (TCS)
• Computer Science and Engineering
W/S in Medical Engineering
• Computer Science and Engineering
W/S in IOT
• Computer Science and Engineering
• CSE w/s in Artificial Intelligence and
Machine Learning
• CSE w/s in Big Data Analytics
• CSE w/s inCyber Security
• Electrical and Electronics Engineering
• Electronics and Communication
Engineering
• Electronics and Communication
Engineering with specialization in Data
Science
• Information Technology
M.Tech. Programmes
• Computer Science and Engineering
• Computer Science and Engineering
W/S in Artificial Intelligence and
Machine Learning
• Embedded System Technology and
VLSI Design
Ramapuram
Trichy
Vadapalani
Delhi-NCR, Ghaziabad
B.Tech Programmes
• Computer Science and Business System
(with TCS partnership)
• Computer Science and Engineering
• Computer Science and Engineering w/s
in Artificial Intelligence and Machine
Learning
• CSE w/s in Artificial Intelligence and
Machine Learning
• CSE w/s in Big Data Analytics
• Electronics and Communication
Engineering
• ECE w/s in Data Science
• Mechanical Engineering
• Mechanical Engineering w/s in Artificial
Intelligence and Machine Learning
• CSE w/s in Cyber Security and
Electronics Engineering (VLSI Design and
Technology)
M.Tech Programmes
• CSE
• VLSI Design
B.Tech Programmes (Part-Time)
• Computer Science and Engineering
• Electronics and Communication
Engineering
• Mechanical Engineering
B.Tech Programmes
• Automobile Engineering
• Computer Science and Business
System (with TCS partnership)
• Computer Science and Engineering
• Computer Science and Engineering
(Data Science)
• CSE w/s in Cloud Computing
• CSE w/s in Cyber Security
• Electrical and Electronics Engineering
• Electronics and Communication
Engineering
• Electronics and Communication
Engineering w/s in Data Science
• Mechanical Engineering
• Mechanical Engineering w/s in AI & ML
M.Tech Programmes
• Computer Science and Engineering
*w/s - with specialization

-- 59 of 74 --

LAW

-- 60 of 74 --

61
The School of Law is a premier legal institution in India that has been pioneering
legal education and research for over a decade. Established in the year 2014, SRM
School of Law has rightfully inherited the rich educational and cultural heritage
from SRMIST, one of the leading universities in India with its inclusive and holistic
approach towards education and development.
With ample facilities and dedicated infrastructure, the students of School of Law
enjoy a unique and enriching learning experience, making use of the vast resources
available to them. The School of Law boasts of highly qualified faculty members
who specialize in a number of relevant fields of law that are of utmost relevance in
modern society.
The School of Law has organized a catena of events since its inception, the
hallmark being the National Moot Court Competition, which has been hosted by
the institution since 2015. This year, nearly 65 teams from across the nation were
hosted by SRM School of Law for a top-notch Moot Court Competition that aimed
towards bolstering advocacy skills and developing legal knowledge in current legal
issues, The School of Law also makes research and literary contributions through
several national and international conferences.
It encourages students to spread their wings in all art forms and sports activities,
ensuring the development of oneself both physically and mentally.
The School believes in engaging students with legal and industry experts, hosting
webinars and expert talks on recent developments in the field of law. This benefits
students, enabling them to think critically and beyond the curriculum and become
true legal luminaries and people with vision, who can change the world.
The School of Law envisages a holistic approach towards teaching students,
ensuring that they not only learn the subject well, but are also equipped to take on
complex and problematic legal scenarios in their careers ahead.
Undergraduate Programmes
• B.A. LL.B. (Honors)
• B.B.A. LL.B. (Honors)
• B.Com. LL.B. (Honors)
• LL.B. (Honors) - Unitary Degree Programme
Masters Programmes
• LL.M - Criminal Law and Criminal Justice
• LL.M - International Trade Law
• LL.M - Corporate Law
• LL.M - Cyber Law and Security
SRMIST reserves the right to add/ remove programmes depending on the viability to offer the same
Faculty of Law

-- 61 of 74 --

MANAGEMENT

-- 62 of 74 --

63
A premier B-School in India, is committed to offering industry-relevant programs, and
aspires to solve business and societal problems through its academic rigour, pedagogical
excellence, research, consulting, and innovative and collaborative practices.
The academic programs include live data, use cases, business simulations, case
studies, research reviews and many more; that are supported by the best of academic
infrastructures like FINTECH Lab, Ideation Cell, AI and Business Analytics Center, and
Social Entrepreneurship cell. The Fintech lab is powered by high-end software like
Thomson Reuters Eikon, CMIE Prowess IQ, CRISIL Research Database, Spider Software
and Traders Cockpit Software which makes learning truly engaging.
Further, SRM FoM offers a unique opportunity to be mentored by Chief Executive Officers
of multi-crore companies under the CXO Protégé Program. Over 150+ companies are our
regular recruitment partners.
Strong International collaborations help our students pursue Foreign Internships,
Semester Abroad Programs, Research and also secure International Placements. These
International exposures attune our students to gain global outlook to astutely face the
challenging dynamics in the complex business environment.
Undergraduate Programmes
BBA
• Business Administration
• Digital Marketing
• Data Science
* Students can choose to add a 4th year to their education to obtain a (Honors.) degree in
accordance with NEP regulations.
Postgraduate Programmes
Admission through SRMJEEM MBA 2024
MBA
• Digital Marketing
• Business Administration
• Banking and Financial Services
• Artificial Intelligence and Data Science
• Business Analytics
• Health Care and Hospital Management
• Financial Services
• Sports Management
• Logistics and Supply Chain Management
SRMIST reserves the right to add/ remove programmes depending on the viability to offer the same
Faculty of Management

-- 63 of 74 --

MEDICINE
& HEALTH SCIENCES

-- 64 of 74 --

65
An integrated approach to healthcare education, research, and
practice thrives within the expansive ecosystem of the SRM
Medical College Hospital & Research Centre. As one of the few
institutions to have a full-fledged muti-speciality on campus, we
are equipped with the latest and best tools for providing primary,
secondary and tertiary care.
The SRM Medical College Hospital & Research Centre, the heart
of our faculty, is a sprawling institution boasting a remarkable
1500+ bed capacity. This world-class hospital provides
unparalleled clinical training opportunities for students across
all disciplines, where they gain hands-on experience under the
guidance of seasoned professionals, honing their skills and
cultivating a deep understanding of patient care.
SRMIST’s links with national and international organisations
of repute in the medical domain contributes significantly to
knowledge exchange, joint research and career opportunities.
The Medical and Health Sciences Faculty, with attached state-of-
the-art hospitals on different campuses, offers undergraduate,
postgraduate, and doctoral programs. These are also centres for
vibrant research, adding numerous publications, clinical trials,
and vaccine trials to their list every year.
Through interdisciplinary collaboration and a steadfast
commitment to innovation, we prepare our students and
researchers to tackle the complex challenges of modern
healthcare with compassion, competence, and confidence.
Our faculty is a vibrant community of diverse institutions, each
dedicated to a unique facet of healthcare. Each entity plays a
vital role in our mission to deliver comprehensive healthcare
services, fostering a collaborative environment where every
contribution is valued. Join us in our journey to revolutionise
healthcare at SRMIST’s Faculty of Medicine.
• SRM Medical College Hospital & Research Centre
• SRM Kattankulathur Dental College & Hospital
• SRM College of Nursing
• SRM College of Physiotherapy
• SRM College of Occupational Therapy
• SRM College of Pharmacy
• SRM School of Public Health
Faculty of Medicine

-- 65 of 74 --

66
MBBS*
MD*
• Anatomy
• Anaesthesia
• Biochemistry
• Community Medicine
• Dermatology, Venerology and
Leprosy
• Emergency Medicine
• Forensic Medicine
• General Medicine
• Microbiology
• Paediatrics
• Physiology
• Pharmacology
• Pathology
• Psychiatry
• Respiratory Medicine
• Radiodiagnosis
MS*
• General Surgery
• Orthopaedics
• Obstetrics & Gynaecology
• Ophthalmology
• Otorhinolaryngology (ENT)
DM*
• Cardiology
• Critical Care Medicine
• Medical gastroenterology
• Nephrology
• Neurology
M.Ch*
• Cardio Vascular & Thoracic
Surgery
• Neurosurgery
• Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery
• Pediatric Surgery
• Urology
Undergraduate Programmes*
(Entance Exam Health Science - UG)
B.ASLP
B.Optom
B.Sc.
• Accident and Emergency Care
Technology
• Critical Care Technology
• Cardio Perfusion Technology
• Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics
• Cardiac Care Technology
• Clinical Psychology
• Medical Laboratory Technology
• Medical Imaging Technology
• Medical Record Science
• Neuroscience Technology
• Physician Assistant
• Operation Theatre and Anaesthesia
Technology
• Respiratory Therapy
• Renal Dialysis Technology
Postgraduate Programmes
(Entance Exam Health Science - PG)
M.Sc.
• Medical Anatomy
• Medical Physiology
• Medical Biochemistry
• Medical Microbiology
• Audiology
• Speech Language Pathology
• Clinical Psychology
• Anaesthesia Technology
• Critical Care Technology
• Renal Sciences and Dialysis
Technology
• Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics
• Medical Imaging Technology
• Medical Laboratory Technology
• Neuroscience Technology
• Urology Technology
• Trauma Care Management
• Cardiovascular Sciences
(Echocardiography)
• Applied Child Development
• Clinical Research
• Respiratory Therapy
• Cardio Perfusion Technology
• Sports and Exercise Psychology
• GI Endoscopy Technology
MHA
• Hospital Administration
M.Optom
• Optometry
M.Phil
• Clinical Psychology
• Psychiatric Social Work
Post Graduate Diploma
• Clinical Embryology (PGDCE)
Certificate Course
• Psychological Counseling in
Reproductive Medicine
Fellowship Programmes
• Emergency Medicine
• Reproductive Medicine
• Infectious Molecular Diagnostics
* Admissions only through NEET Eligibility and Counselling conducted by MCC of DGHS, GOI
NEET Programmes
Undergraduate Programme
BDS
Bachelor of Dental Surgery
Postgraduate Programmes
MDS*
Master of Dental Surgery
• Orthodontics & Dento Facial
Orthopedics
• Prosthodontics and Crown & Bridge
• Conservative Dentistry and
Endodontics
• Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery
• Periodontology
• Pediatric and Preventive Dentistry
SRM Kattankulathur Dental College
SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre

-- 66 of 74 --

67	SRMIST reserves the right to add/ remove programmes depending on the viability to offer the same
SRM College of Pharmacy
Undergraduate Programmes
B.Pharm
Pharm D - (Doctor of Pharmacy)
Postgraduate Programmes
M.Pharm
• Pharmaceutics
• Pharmaceutical Chemistry
• Pharmaceutical Analysis
• Pharmaceutical Quality Assurance
• Pharmaceutical Regulatory Affairs
• Pharmacy Practice
Pharmacology
• Pharmacognosy
• Pharm D (Post Baccalaureate
* M.Pharmacy applicants with valid
GPAT scores are eligible for a stipend
SRM College of Occupational Theraphy
Undergraduate Programme
BOT
Bachelor of Occupational Theraphy
Postgraduate Programmes
MOT
Bachelor of Occupational Theraphy
• Neurosciences
• Paediatrics
• Orthopaedics
• Mental Health
• Hand Rehabilitation
• Sensory Integration Therapy
*Through Entrance Examination
SRM College of Nursing
Undergraduate Programmes
B.Sc.
• Nursing
PBB.Sc
• Post Basic B.Sc Nursing
Post Basic Diploma
• Critical Care
• Operation Room
• Emergency and Disaster
Postgraduate Programmes
M.Sc. Nursing
• Community Health
• Medical Surgical
• Nurse Practitioner in Critical Care
• Obstetrics and Gynaecology
• Mental Health Nursing (Psychiatric
Nursing)
• Peadiatric Nursing (Child Health)
M.Sc (N) NPCC
• Nursing
SRM College of Physiotherapy
Undergraduate Programmes
B.P.T - Bachelor of Physiotherapy
Postgraduate Programmes
M.P.T - Master of Physiotherapy
• M.P.T. Biomechanics
• M.P.T. Cardiopulmonary Sciences
• M.P.T. Community Rehabilitation
• M.P.T. Hand Rehabilitation
• M.P.T. Neurology
• M.P.T. Obstetrics and Gynaecology
• M.P.T. Orthopaedics
• M.P.T. Paediatrics
• M.P.T. Sports Physiotherapy
SRM School of Public Health
Postgraduate Programmes
• Master of Public Health (MPH)
• M.Sc - Biostatistics and
Epidemiology
• M.Sc - Health Data Science
Fellowship Programme
• Associate Fellowship in Industrial
Health
• Admission through SRMJEEH Health Science - UG - for UG Programmes
• Admission through SRMJEEH Health Science - PG - for PG Programmes

-- 67 of 74 --

SCIENCE
& HUMANITIES

-- 68 of 74 --

69
With a formidable array of 24 departments, a flourishing
student body of 6000 plus, a cadre of 200 devoted faculty
members, and 180 esteemed research scholars, stands
as a monument to our collective quest for knowledge and
scholarly rigor. Our interdisciplinary ethoses promote an
ambiance where myriad perspectives converge, fostering
not only intellectual growth but also the nurturing of
environmental consciousness.
Central to the principles at FSH is the veneration of mutual
respect, where we recognize and celebrate the intrinsic
worth that each member of our community brings. This
value infuses our interactions, engendering a culture of
inclusivity and collaborative endeavor.
A primary tenet of our mission is to equip our students with
the requisite skills to navigate the tumultuous seas of an
ever-evolving world. To this noble end, we offer specialized
courses in fields such as entrepreneurship, coding, and
strategic studies. Our fervent emphasis on skill cultivation
ensures that our graduates emerge poised to surmount the
challenges that lie ahead.
Of particular pride to us are our distinctive programs,
notably those in Commerce, Computer Applications, Media,
Biotechnology, Economics, Psychology, Fashion Designing,
Literature, Social Work, Defence, and Strategic Studies,
alongside our laudable efforts in Disaster Management.
These ventures underscore our steadfast commitment to
confronting global exigencies and advancing the frontiers of
knowledge in these pivotal domains.
Undergraduate Programmes
B.Com* - Commerce I Accounting and Finance I Corporate
Secretaryship I Information System and Management I
Banking, Financial Services and Insurance I Computer
Applications I Finance and Taxation (Embedded with
coaching For Chartered Accountant - CA) I International
Accounting and Finance I Professional Accounting I Strategic
Finance
B.A*- English I Journalism and Mass Communication I
Criminology and Police Administration
B.Sc*.-Biotechnology I Chemistry I Computer Science I
Computer Science w/s Cyber Security I Cyber Security I
Defence and Strategic Studies I Economics I Fashion
Designing I Film Technology I Mathematics I Physical
Education, Health Education and Sports I Physics I
Psychology I Statistics I Visual Communication I Al & ML I
Forensic sciences I Industrial IOT
B.S. - Mathematics I Physics I Chemistry I Biotechnology
BCA*- Computer Applications I Data Science
B.Ed - Education (English, Tamil, Mathematics, Physical
Science, Social Science, Biological Science, Computer
Science, Commerce & Accounting, Economics)
* Students can choose to add 4 years to their education to
obtain a B.A (Honors.) I B.Sc (Honors.) I B.C.A (Honors. I
B.Com (Honors.) degree in accordance with NEP regulations.
Postgraduate Programmes
M.Com - Commerce I Accounting & Finance
M.A. - Journalism and Mass Communication I English I
Criminology and Police Administration
M.Sc - Visual Communication I Biotechnology I Physics I
Chemistry I Mathematics I Atmospheric Science I Organic
Chemistry I Biochemistry I Computer Science I Information
Technology I Yoga I Applied Data Science I Disaster
Management
MCA - Computer Applications I Generative Al
M.S.W - Social Work (Human Resource Management,
Medical & Psychiatry and Community Development)
Diploma - Film Acting I Yoga I Certified Financial
Management
SRMIST reserves the right to add/ remove programmes depending on the viability to offer the same
Faculty of Science and Humanities

-- 69 of 74 --



-- 70 of 74 --

71
Directorate of Alumni Affairs
With a legacy of almost four decades, SRMIST is home to over 170,000 alumni worldwide. The Directorate
of Alumni Affairs is committed to fostering connections with our esteemed alumni. These alumni, who
have graduated from diverse programs across 6 faculties, are not just active in various sectors in India but
also globally. From mentoring to providing career support and scholarships, our alumni play a pivotal role
in supporting and guiding our current students, showing them the path to success.
One of the Directorate’s primary endeavours involves inviting alumni to campus, providing them with
opportunities to engage with current students, share their valuable insights, and offer guidance regarding
career paths. The Directorate organise Departmental Alumni meets and reunions, providing platforms for
our past students to reconnect with their alma mater and each other.
Furthermore, the Directorate actively seeks to enhance alumni participation through various avenues. This
includes encouraging contributions such as sponsoring labs, fostering collaborative research initiatives,
establishing Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs), and offering internship opportunities.
The online portal catering to alumni needs, features discussion forums and job listings. Within this portal,
registered alumni can utilise search tools to reconnect with old friends, access photo albums, and make
financial contributions through a fee/donation portal. The Alumni contribute around I 75 - 80 Lakhs per
annum in addition to the assistance rendered to students in providing employment, internships, expert
lectures and mentoring within India and abroad.
Moreover, the Alumni Association enriches alumni experiences by publishing "Reflections" a newsletter,
Also atleast one alumni-sponsored program is organized every month, complementing the regular alumni
gatherings.
Activities / Programs
An annual Alumni Day, Placement as per the alumni request, Achievers’ Connect, Alumni Global Meet
(Online & Physical), Leadership Talks / Summit / Women’s Day Special, Silver Jubilee Reunions, Webinars,
Chapters Alumni Meet-ups, Success Stories, and Workshops are organised regularly.
SRM Alumni Chapters in India and Abroad
The alumni chapters are not just another place to bond and network but also are increasingly emerging as
support systems for the alumni with one helping another in times of need. We have six registered chapters
at Chennai | Bangalore | Singapore | US East and West Coasts and Dubai.
Unregistered chapters are at
Hyderabad | Mumbai | Pune | NCR | Delhi | Ahmedabad | Allahabad | Bareilly| Bhubaneswar |
Bhopal | Chandigarh | Chhattisgarh | Coimbatore | Dehradun | Guwahati | Indore| Jaipur |
Jharkhand | J&K | Kanpur | Kolkata | Kochi | Lucknow | Nagpur |Puducherry | Patna | Salem | Vizag |
Atlanta, Boston, California, Chicago, Dallas, New Jersey, New York, San Francisco, Texas and Washington
DC in the USA | Berlin, Hamburg, Munich and Stuttgart in Germany | Melbourne in Australia | London in
the UK | Canada | Iraq | Ireland| KSA | Muscat | Nepal | Netherlands | New Zealand | NRW | Oman | Qatar |
Rwanda | Singapore | Sweden | Sydney | Syria | UAE
Concession for Alumni
SRMIST has special admissions schemes for the children of its alumni, including fee waivers and
scholarships. The alumni can also claim concessions ranging from 25% to 100% on the services offered
by SRM-owned hotels, guest houses, and hospitals.
Everlasting 	Bonds

-- 71 of 74 --

SRM
Outreach

-- 72 of 74 --

73
SRM values its relationships with schools, associations and the broader community and engages with the
community through innovative outreach programs to benefit future students and the community.
Some of the major initiatives undertaken at SRM include:
• Medical care is provided to the surrounding rural population of 7.5 lakh in 143 villages
• Health care of the tribal of Jawadhi Hills in collaboration with governmental agencies
• Awareness programs and various health camps
• Eradicating alcoholism through awareness camps
• SRM Early Detection, Rehabilitation and Empowerment Center in partnership with NIEPMD (National Institute
of Empowerment for Persons with Multiple Disabilities) and DMD (Duccuhre Muscular Dystrophy) Centre in
partnership with Govt. of Tamil Nadu do a yeoman’s service for the cause of differently abled population
• Knowledge enhancement programs for school headmasters, teachers and children
• Skill development programs for local artisans – masons, carpenters, plumbers
• SRMIST and Green Pearl Electronics Pvt. Ltd. jointly offer a Skill Development Program on Solar PV Installation
and Maintenance
• Partnering with the Government of India in Swachh Bharat Abyian (SBA), Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA), Jal
Sakthi, and Solar Ambassador programs in uplifting the rural masses.
Muthucharam –SRM’s Community Radio
Operating at the frequency of 90.4 Mhz, it was established in our campus to serve the people in the coverage
area. The programs focus on education, health, environment, agriculture, and rural and community development.
Green Initiatives and Sustainability
• 176 courses on sustainability and green initiatives
• 108 Funded projects amounting to Rs. 44.56 crores sanctioned on climate change and energy, waste, water,
transport and health care
• Deepening and strengthening the Potheri Tangal Lake (Chitteri) to an extent of 11.89 hectares and renovating
it with the creation of walkways, gardens and lawns around the tank
• Cleaning oil spill to the extent of 251.46 tons along the coastline of Ennore, Chennai
• Stop Plastic campaigns
• Installation of solar panel capacity mitigating 12609 tons of CO 2
• Solar steam generators produce 1500 kg of steam per day to reduce LPG consumption to the tune of
Rs. 2 lakhs per month
• 1831 kW solar heaters installed to mitigate 67000 tons of Co 2
• 405 m 3 capacity biogas plant is installed
• 70000 CFL bulbs replaced with LEDs, reducing 9644 tons of CO 2 emission
• Recycling 34 % of the total waste since the base year 2012 to reduce solid waste generation
As a result of the initiatives mentioned above, SRMIST was 9 th in India and 392 nd in the World in the UI Green
Metric Rankings. Moreover, SRMIST is within the top 50 ranks in the MHRD-conducted SWACHH Bharat Campus
rankings.
Students Counseling Centre (SCC)
The Student Counseling Centre (SCC) serves as a vital hub, fostering continuous communication among
students, educators, and parents. Functioning as a proactive platform, SCC diligently addresses the multifaceted
challenges encountered by students. It operates as a focused initiative, engaging parents, teachers, and
residence advisors to collaboratively support students in navigating through various hurdles such as academic
hurdles, exam stress, feelings of isolation, cultural adjustments, confidence issues, hostel life, decision-making
dilemmas, and struggles with self-assurance or acclimatisation to new surroundings.
Through counseling sessions, students are provided with a safe space to articulate their concerns. These
sessions are led by experienced faculty members and experts in guidance and counselling. A commitment to
privacy fosters an environment of trust and support, ensuring that all discussions remain within the counseling
room.

-- 73 of 74 --

74
THE DIRECTOR ADMISSIONS
SRM INSTITUTE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
SRM Nagar, Kattankulathur, Chengalpattu District
Tamil Nadu - 603 203, India
Admissions Helpline: 080 - 6908 7000
admissions.india@srmist.edu.in
Monday - Saturday (except public holidays)
For More Information :
https://www.srmist.edu.in/
https://www.facebook.com/SRMUniversityOfficial
https://x.com/SRM_Univ
https://www.instagram.com/SRMUniversityOfficial
https://in.linkedin.com/school/srm-ist-chennai/
https://www.youtube.com/user/SRMeducation
CAMPUSES : CHENNAI ( KATTANKULATHUR - VADAPALANI - RAMAPURAM) I BABURAYANPETTAI I TRICHY I DELHI - NCR

-- 74 of 74 --

